All right, folks. 7:01. So, let's get
this show on the road. This is the March
24th, 2026 uh Board of Finance Special
Budget Workshop meeting. We'll start
with the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge
allegiance to the flag of the United
States of America
>> and to the republic for which it stands,
one nation under God, indivisible,
>> with liberty and justice for all.
>> Okay. Uh we'll do a quick round of
public speak. Uh we have a number of
folks here who are select board members,
but I'll go around with them. Uh Scott,
do you have anything before we get
going?
>> I'm good. Thank you.
>> All right. Annie.
>> Okay. Carol.
Carol,
>> you're on mute.
>> There you go.
Oh, you're muted again. Okay, you're all
set. Uh,
Joanne,
>> I'm all set. I'm here to listen.
>> I'm admitting a couple people. Here's
Kim
and Jeff Murray.
>> Hey, Kim. Hey, Jeff.
>> Hey,
>> Jeff. We were just doing public speak so
uh you know I'll give you an opportunity
but obviously we're going to probably
hear from you during the meeting but if
you have anything to start off with go
ahead.
>> All set.
>> Okay.
Okay. So, um, last meeting we went
through, I'd say roughly the first half
of the town ops budget and we had a
number of things crop up that were
raised as questions and some changes we
made and and I think part of what we're
trying to do tonight is make sure that
we are not doing things and making
choices that don't comport with the
select board's understanding of things
or what you guys are trying to do. Uh,
you know, we don't want to make a
misstep there. There's a lot going on.
So, I'm going to, unless anybody has
other thoughts, what I was thinking of
doing is going back to the spreadsheet
that we were working off of last week
where I had my notes. Uh, Lisa gave us a
new spreadsheet, which is great. But,
um, you know, and just sort of going
through the ones where I think maybe we
can say the select board could weigh it
on for us if that helps. Um, so what I'm
going to do here is I'm going to share
my screen if I can
do this properly. One moment.
Okay.
So, one of the things we talked about,
the first thing we talked about was the
um admin assistant line under the town
administrator.
Uh, and
>> you're not sharing yet.
>> What?
>> You're not sharing yet?
>> I'm not sharing yet. I apologize. I
thought it says I'm screen sharing.
>> I can I see it. I see it.
>> I can see it.
>> Okay.
>> I'm not seeing it. I don't know why. All
right.
>> Um, that's weird, Bill. So, I think this
was originally set to 30,000 and
we voted to cut it, but I we weren't
real sure about what we were doing. So
here here's my apologies, but you know I
kind of typed this up as we were
talking. So the question here is how
many hours was the board of selectman
intending for this position?
>> We did a calculation of 19 hours at $25
an hour at 52 weeks. That came out to
24,700.
So we cut it down to 25K. But if this is
intended at a more than at a 20 hours
plus position, which I think would have
benefits implications,
uh, that might not have been the right
thing for us to do. So,
>> can any of the select board members
chime in on that? Um,
>> your intent.
>> Carol, are you going to talk on this? I
was going to because I know um when I
asked about at the board of selectman
meeting, I had suggested 20 hours a week
so that
we get someone in there that would stay.
>> Yeah. But
I I have a question for you, Carol,
anyways.
>> Okay.
>> Because we already have an
administrative assistant in town that we
pay. So,
>> so I'm not sure why why what are we
doing with that? Why are we having
another administrative assistant
>> because Kate right now I think her
stipen is like $5,000 or 6,000. It
really isn't that much. But when Kate is
out with five weeks vacation during the
year, the admin, the town administrator
doesn't have anyone. And it just gives
more stability for that office. So if
if a town administrator
leaves, at least we have the admin
assistant in there to give guidance to a
new incoming town administrator. So it
>> what what you could to do is to increase
her hours then
>> no it would be to hire a different
person. Now if you wanted to keep Kate
on as the some you know with her little
stipen to do the website or something
which is really all that she really has
a lot of time to do for the town
administrator.
you know, get let her continue doing
that, but hire an additional person that
is just the admin assistant to the town
administrator because in July and
January, Kate's busy taking taxes. So,
she can't really devote much time to the
town administrator. So that was the
discussion and that was why we came up
with 20 hours and
you know it wouldn't be Kate but again
Kate could stay on as just the website
person.
>> Have you talked to
>> Yeah. Have you talked to Kate about this
thought process?
>> Yeah. This is I mean this is How do you
think Kate feels about this, Carol?
>> I don't know. But when we talked about
it at our last meeting, Scott, you seem
to think
>> No, I didn't know, Carol. I didn't know
where you were going with this. I
thought maybe you were going to give
Kate a raise or something. I didn't know
you were trying to get rid of her job.
>> Um,
>> I did not say that. I just said we
needed an additional person as the town
administrator's assistant.
Kate, for what do we give her? $6,000 a
year.
>> I think it was uh $5,150
was what was in the 2526 budget.
>> Okay. And basically now she does most of
the work on the website. So let her stay
as the website person with that
additional stipend and just give the
town administrator
a 20our a week assistant that they
should be entitled to.
So,
>> can can I ask some questions about this?
>> I'll never I I'll never agree to that.
Carol,
>> can I can I clarify? I'm
>> not gonna get rid of I'm not gonna get
rid of Kate.
>> Okay. We're not getting rid of We're not
getting rid of Kate at all.
>> We're not getting rid of Kate. Kate
would still be doing uh She's wearing a
lot of hats, but Kim, what was your
question?
>> So, so Kate Kate kind of serves a dual
role in the town hall right now. two or
three. I think she's got
>> So, she's an assistant
>> tax. She's our tax collector or
assistant tax collector?
>> The tax collector.
>> She is the tax collector and she works
about 19 hours a week for that.
>> No.
Um she's
>> I think she's 34 hours in July, October,
January, and April. And then she's 20.
How many Lisa during the Wednesday off?
>> I think 22.
>> 22.
>> So Lisa can help me understand. So her
position as the the admin right now,
>> how many hours is that?
>> Is it,
>> you know, I I'm trying to remember where
I put it. I've got so much going on. I'm
um because I did her calculation for
that line and I figured the two of them.
Um if you can hold on I'm I did the
whole
>> Hold on.
>> So So my thinking because I I have done
some research on this position is you
know Kate Kate has brought in probably
$200,000 in back taxes
for the town. She's a very to me that's
pretty valuable
>> in the last year. Just in the last year.
What if what if we in just increased her
hours? So, she had set hours for her tax
collector position and she had set hours
as the administrative assistant, which
it seems like she's already got her
hands in and is touching it
and we kept her. We don't have to hire a
new employee or look for a new employee.
She seems to me like she's a very
valuable asset to the town
and give it a try. I mean, I think it's
a conversation that we could have with
her, but hiring new people, finding
people that fit in, people with a skill
set like this, it's tough,
>> right?
>> It's I I would really like to consider
um us doing that.
I mean some of that some Oh, so go
ahead, Bill. No,
>> I just want I think originally when we
talked about this last week, our
thinking was the reason for this is if
we get a new town admin, which we we're
still trying to fill the admin position.
They may need a good admin themselves,
right? If we get a new town
administrator, they're going to need an
admin. They're learning a new role,
coming to a new job. I think that was
part of the thinking. Is is that
correct? I'm asking the board of
selectman. That's what we were thinking
of. Yes. And I have a lot of vacation
time.
>> Stop sharing this first time. Go on.
>> Well, vacation time vacation time.
>> Everybody gets vacation.
>> I mean, what what is that?
>> She takes off a I'm not sure if she's
getting paid for all the time, but I
know she takes off quite a bit. And
between her time, the months that she's
the tax collector and then taking off
sometimes for vacation, I think we need
somebody in there for more hours as an
admin. And we had that back before she
took the job. Um, what was it? Was it
Amanda? I'm trying to think of the name
of the girl we had before.
>> You're right.
>> It was Amanda.
>> Yes. And we need that again. And Amanda
was 19 hours per week
>> every week.
>> And she was in addition to the tax
collector. So we've always had an admin
assistant whether it been was to the
first selectman or the town
administrator.
So just trying to get that position back
where that person is dedicated solely to
the town administrator
because again Kate in July and January
is is full-time collecting the taxes.
And you're right, she does a good job.
Nobody's arguing that. And we're not
trying to take her money away. continue
to give her the $5,000 stipend to handle
the website and concentrate strictly on
that and keep that updated because
>> I don't think this was a good place.
This wasn't a good place to talk about
this whole position. Carol, you you
should have talked about this to us
before we got to this point.
>> It was talked about. It was completely
talked about.
>> How can you have how can you have Kate
>> Yeah. I can have Kate sitting in the tax
uh Jeff Maguire is the one who said
let's up this to 30,000
Carol so that we can get the 20hour a
week admin assistant for the town
administrator. So you if you want to
text Jeff I don't know if he's available
but he is the one who advised Lisa to
put that up to 30,000. So, we could do
that and have a 20hour a week admin
assistant.
>> So, I just want to clarify something and
then I want to hear from um Jeff Murray
again because I basically didn't catch
what you know it was a lot of cross
talk. But before we go there, I just
want to be clear. The I is are you
saying Carly the idea behind the 30K was
25 really for this new position and then
keeping a $5,000ish stipend for Kate?
because that's not clear in the budget.
The way it's
>> I I believe so because I had suggested
$25 per hour for 20 hours which would
equate to 25,000. Jeff Maguire
instructed you can listen to the board
of selection meeting to put it at 30. So
>> I'm not I don't want to speak for Jeff
but he is the one who said to keep it at
the 30. Just
>> the reason I asked that question and
then yeah I do want to hear from Jeff
Murray but the the reason I asked that
question is
>> we made a cut and if that cut stands
what we just did was cut the stip end
out. So
>> I just want everyone to be clear on what
we did.
>> Um Jeff, would you I'm sorry. I I really
didn't catch what you had what you were
saying before. No, I mean it's it's it's
the problem is Kate Kate morphed into,
you know, she moved into the tax
collector's office and it's going to be
very difficult to have her doing the
admin duties during the day and doing
the tax collector duties, especially
during the tax season. So, you know,
it's it's good to have a somebody
dedicated to the town administrator. I
mean, we're going to have a new person
in there and I said that assistant does
a lot and um especially with a new
person coming in. I just I feel for the
money, the expenditure, it's not a it's
not really a big it's not a really big
ask.
>> I I don't think that it is. I I just
wanted to get clarity. I don't think we
fully understood
>> what we were looking at with that
$30,000.
>> Uh and I think we made a decision that
now in retrospect I'm not so sure about.
So that's why we had you guys on. That's
why we wanted to talk about this because
>> yeah, we made a cut, but does that cut
make sense? Um, I think we might want to
revisit it, guys, based on what we're
hearing here. Uh, by the way, uh,
welcome to the other Jeff. I see you
there, Mr. Magcguire.
>> And can I just add one more thing? I was
looking through the spreadsheet that
Lisa sent us. There is a $5,000 some odd
dollar stipen for the assistant to the
treasurer that was given specifically to
Chris. So,
>> yep,
>> that could probably
>> that was on my list to talk about
tonight because obviously we've lost
Chris.
>> Okay,
>> we'll get there. Uh, fair enough. And
may and maybe that's where maybe we can
make a motion and and and put the one
back up and take the other one out. But
we also have to talk about what we're
planning for assistant treasurer moving
forward.
I mean, we know we need one. We just
lost one. I'm assuming we're gonna try
to replace that position.
>> We will be. We just got the res uh
resignation on uh
>> Friday. Got it.
>> Yep.
>> The the treasurer is working on the
issues that we have internally in that
office. Uh I'm I'm working with her to
try to sit there and get it straightened
up, but we have uh some issues that we
have to resolve. And yes, we will be uh
putting forth a job description on that.
and then uh putting that out for the
public so that maybe some people can sit
there and apply.
>> All right. And and obviously my take on
this is I just want our line item in our
budget to properly reflect that. Uh are
we in fact budgeting appropriately for
hiring that for that position? That's
all. So but before we get to that
going back to this,
>> you know, this is last week again. Oh,
sorry I stopped sharing. But last week
we made a cut to the town to the
administrator assistant to the town
administrator line from 30 to 25. And
now I'm you know based on what I've just
heard that may have been illconsidered.
So you know we might want to put that
back to 30
um under the understanding that although
here's another question. Should it be
broken down? Should we have the 25 that
we have in that line and then a separate
line for a stipend for what Kate's doing
in her other duties? I don't know. They
should be aggregated. What do you think,
Lisa?
>> I'm sorry. I was trying to I was trying
to look for that information for Kim
before. What did you say,
>> Lisa?
>> I was saying that so last week we made
that cut, right? We we had $30,000 in
the town administrator assistant line.
We talked about it without having all
the information we had tonight and we
cut it down to 25,000 under the idea
that wait a minute if you do the math 20
hours a week get you know 25 bucks an
hour and you get to 25k. So but then the
discussion here is talked about how well
we still need a stipend
for the other duties that K takes on and
that was 5150 last year. Now that
incorporates her helping a little bit at
least with the town administrator.
Do we need a separate line then for that
stipend instead of rolling it in if we
increase the assistant line back to 30
as per the original board selement
request? I don't have a problem with the
number but do should it be in the same
line right or shouldn't we have a
separate line for Kate stipend?
So this is considering if she re No,
this is if you have a new administrative
assistant,
>> right? But consistent
>> with what Carol was saying and I think
unless I'm misunderstanding, you know,
Jeff Murray was saying Kate still does a
lot of other stuff,
>> right?
Um, and so at least Carol's
understanding was the idea was we were
hiring this person, we're going to hire
this person and that bit is about 25K
and then there's still this 5K stipend
and that's how you get to 30.
>> But
>> well, wouldn't you just leave it in the
same lines that it's in? Leave her.
>> That's what I'm asking. Yeah. I mean, I
would still leave administrative
assistant. It would You're considering
the website still to be administrative
assistant oriented, right?
>> But it would be going to two different
people. That's the only reason I asked
it. I I again I don't really care how
it's done as long as it's done if you
think it's done properly. If it's fine
to have it all in one, cool. All right,
fine. We'll we'll we'll leave it.
That's fine by me.
>> Well, the the like the section town
administrator
just because it says administrative.
Well,
>> I I would think
>> just leave it in one. Listen, if you're
going to put the money in, leave it in
one line item. It it really the stipen
not stipen doesn't really make a
difference.
>> That's true because you could share two
people in one line.
>> I'm just trying not to make Lisa's life
harder later. That's all.
>> Then simple as well.
>> Then leave it.
>> Okay. Then we'll leave it.
>> Did you share the budget again, Rob?
>> Yeah. One moment. Sorry. Uh you're
right. I stopped sharing.
And again, I'm going to switch over at
some point to Lisa's new spreadsheet.
This is I'm using this old one because
of
>> you had our last week's questions on it.
>> So, here's the line item. Here's the old
stipend here, right? And this is this
was originally
30,000 and we cut it down last meeting
to 25 because we did some math and said,
"Wait a minute. Why is it 30?" This now
this is exactly why I wanted to have
this discussion. We're finding out that
Okay. But the actual idea here was that
this incorporates two different things.
I don't think we understood that last
week.
>> No, we didn't. No.
>> Okay. So, let's go ahead and change.
>> Sorry. Uh, so I I you know, I would
suggest Yeah. If if somebody wants to
make a motion to kind of reverse our
last week's decision, I'd be fine with
that.
make a motion to put put the salary back
to
>> I'll make a motion to put the salary of
the admin assistant
on that line 102-101
back to 30,000 for the 2026 budget.
>> I'll second it.
>> Okay. So, Liz motions, bill seconds.
Oops. Uh, does anyone have any further
discussion on the board?
>> So, you only What did you change then?
Wait, we haven't voted yet.
>> Okay,
>> we're getting there.
>> Okay, I thought I missed
>> I gotta do this right and and Kate's
schooled me on this. I got to go person
by person so she can record it properly
later. So, unless there's further
discussion, we'll take a vote. Okay. Uh,
I'll just go by who's on my screen. Liz,
>> yes.
>> Bill,
>> Uh, Louise,
>> yes.
>> Kim,
Heather,
>> yes.
>> Nick,
>> And I am a yes. I believe that's all of
us. 70. We agree to put this back to
30,000.
Although this isn't the spreadsheet
where I really need to be changing it,
but we need to use the new one. Um,
okay. So, that's hopefully sorted. Uh
this brings up what we were talking
about a moment ago which is
this issue the assistant treasurer
stipend
um if we are looking at hiring a new
person what do we need in this line
what's appropriate in this line are we
okay if we leave it do we have opinions
from the select board on that
please chime
Since we've lost our assistant treasurer
and obviously we're going to be doing a
job search,
>> you should you should leave the again
that stipen was to
that stipen was with the understanding
that the the person that was in that
role was going to be able to fill some
of the treasurer's positions. That is
not um you should take the stipen again.
We shouldn't have stipens. Honestly,
stipens should be part of the wages and
they should all be in there. So, in my
mind, you should sit there and and
increase that line item to, you know, um
566.99
and and move on. And then if we can sit
there and make some adjustments
internally, um
you know, to be really honest, the the
the treasurer needs to get that that
money. You know, she's she's in there
right now. So she we're going to be
spending the money that is remaining on
the assistant uh wages until we can hire
a new one uh to compensate the treasurer
to be quite frank.
>> So um I would get rid of the stipen line
and I would put it into the the the 5500
treasurer clerk wages.
>> So So you would take down
>> 45150? No, that's
>> down down
>> that one.
>> Sorry.
>> Yeah.
>> So,
>> so it's just a combination of those two
numbers,
>> right?
>> All right.
So, that's the proposal. I mean, uh, do
we have any other commentary on that
from anyone else here? Um, so
>> how many hours a week does the assistant
treasurer work? Just out of curiosity.
>> I mean,
38400 the answer.
>> How many? Sorry.
>> I'm sorry, Lisa.
>> 30.
>> How many?
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Uh,
>> so it's not a question. It's it's a it's
a delete. You just added it right to the
other one.
>> So, I did the math down here. I haven't
messed around with it yet, Bill. And
again, this is um this is last week's
spreadsheet, so some of this I'll have
to transfer over later. And hopefully,
you know, Lisa's following along. But if
we did this, if if we follow what Jeff
suggested, my understanding would be we
zero out, we delete this line entirely,
and this number here, we would increase
to this number here.
>> Correct? If if that if I'm understanding
the idea,
>> I'm fine with that personally. Uh does I
mean if there's any other thoughts or
commentary, I'd like to hear it, but
otherwise
um it makes some sense. I agree in
general like stipens aren't necessarily
great. I'd like to
have everything in wages. So
>> So just a question. Oh, go ahead.
>> Who is that? Okay.
>> Um, if if the point of this is to use
that money, that 50150
>> 150. Yeah.
>> To try and compensate for Lisa, why
don't we just move it up to that line?
Just out of curiosity.
I mean, is there an argument against
that?
>> Yeah, it's a good idea.
>> There there is. We We've done that. And
what you want to do is is sit there and
determine the way I'm seeing this after
being in the office and understanding
what's going on is to determine what the
assistant treasurer's role will be
moving forward
>> and then determining what that money is
and then splitting that out between the
assistant treasurer's line and the
treasurer's line for this year because
you know that that's what's going to
happen for this even for this year
coming up. And um
just from my opinion, I wouldn't just
put it into the treasurer's line because
this is like with every line item you
guys deal with. Once you put it there,
you don't ever get it back. It's very
hard, especially from an employee
standpoint. It's very hard. And and so
what I would tell you is leave the 40
there. leave the assistant treasurer's
wages there. As we as Lisa determines
what she really needs in the office and
how effectively it will work out, she
might hire somebody at slightly a
different rate and then some of that
money will get transferred to her for
next year and then it'll be a
determination of how well the system is
set up and does Lisa need to be doing
what she's doing now, which the answer
better be no. So
>> just I'm just telling you. So I wouldn't
I wouldn't sit there and move it because
>> you know this is this is the same thing
I when I got involved with you guys last
year is the same thing I said to you.
It's like once you give it it's really
hard to take it away and that's the
whole key to to what you
>> So we should just leave it.
>> We should just leave it as as a
on a stipen line. Something that's easy
to
>> No. No stipen. No, we should move in.
>> Put it in the cler. Put it in the
clerk's wages. And then what can what
should happen if I if I'm is that
clerk's wages will be adjusted
and then next year you'll be able to sit
there and make a downward adjustment if
everything goes according to plan.
>> Okay.
Okay.
All right.
So Rob, I don't think we need a a motion
for that, right? We can just do it
because
>> No, I mean I think we would want a
motion to move.
>> So I can do that
>> to there.
>> Combine it with this to make that.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. I'll make the motion that we take
the assistant treasur stipen to 5150 add
it to line 109120 the treasur clerk's
wages to make that total 58.40 40 and
delete 109 101
>> 58400
>> second it
>> I think Liz second
>> 58
>> 58400 is the total so okay so bill
motioned
>> Liz you in a second
>> I corrected it
>> you corrected it I corrected in a second
>> sorry apologies
>> again I have such a little bar here when
I'm sharing my screen. Um, okay. So, if
there's further discussion, now is your
time. Otherwise, we'll take a vote.
All right. Liz,
>> yes.
>> Bill,
>> Louise,
>> yes.
>> Heather,
>> Nick,
>> yes.
>> Kim,
>> M.
>> Thanks, Phil.
>> Welcome.
Goldfish brain, you're not on my screen.
You don't exist. And myself. Yes, that's
70. Uh, we will do we'll go ahead and do
that. Um,
obviously hopefully Elisa is tracking
this in there. Oh, look at that. Let me
break the spreadsheet. Okay,
it's 58
400. Boom. And this gets zeroed out.
And this gets deleted.
Do we want to make a note on that line
saying stating that it includes that
dollar amount we just took out we just
added in so we know about it next year?
>> There you go.
>> I mean, honestly, I'm putting this in
the wrong spreadsheet, but um
>> yeah. Yeah,
>> I'll get it into the at some point. I'll
transfer it over uh for
treasure.
Okay.
Um, we had this high highlighted. I
don't know if I really care enough to go
back to it. This was a this was a
discussion with Lisa about what to do
for payroll. I don't know if this is
really the time to to revisit that,
guys. Um,
>> that's not payroll though, Rob.
>> Oh, sorry.
>> That's QuickBooks update.
>> Quickbook updates. And then I had ADB
for payroll. And oh, that was a whole
another discussion down below. Right.
>> Yeah. My my bad. Okay.
So, okay. Um, land records, there was an
increase here. We had asked about it. I
talked to both Robera and Kate. There's
apparently there was a system update and
that is the new required amount. I I I
think that was the justification.
Um, that's pretty much what I have on
that. I'd leave it alone personally.
It's not a ton of money and if that's
what they're telling us we need, then so
be it.
um
this here. Okay. So, I'm a little I want
to make sure we've got this right cuz I
talked to Kate about this. She's
apparently like one class away
and like a certification where she gets
a pay bump.
And I don't know if it's built into this
number here
because that's supposed to come in the
fall. She
>> It is not.
>> Okay.
So
>> it's 45. It should be 45 804.
>> Okay.
So that's just
>> All right. Well, let me not do that yet.
But that's what I have here. 45 804 upon
completion.
>> Yep.
>> One class left. Going to get happen in
the fall.
>> So this
would need to go up about 800 bucks. not
quite
>> to make this right because otherwise
we're going to be under on this line.
>> Um,
so I mean I just think this is a quick
fix. We I I personally think I don't
like this isn't something we avoid. Like
it happens. It triggers a raise.
>> Yep. Yep.
>> So um I propose I'll go ahead and I'll
just I'll just move I'll move that we
increase this line to 45. Sorry, the
line 111-100 tax collector salary that
we increased that to 45804
from the current 45 032
number that we had on this spreadsheet.
Now, Lisa, it wasn't updated in your new
one yet, right?
>> No, it was not.
>> Okay. So, this is this motion is then
live. Okay, great. So, do we have a
second on that?
Second.
>> Okay. Any further discussion on that?
Great. Okay. Uh, Liz,
>> yes.
>> Liz is a yes. Bill,
>> Bill's yes. Kim,
>> yes.
>> Gotcha. This time, yes. Louise,
>> Is a yes. Heather,
>> yes.
>> Nick,
>> Me, yes. Okay, so that's 45804.
Done deal. Okay, great.
Um,
okay. So, we had a line, we had a
question mark here because it was a big
percentage increase. Not a lot of money,
but it's a big percentage increase. And
what I have here is estimate for sorry,
estimate from contractor plus a small
buffer from Kate. She said actually
15,000 should probably take care of it.
We have it at 16 at the moment. So, her
opinion was we could cut this by $1,000
without causing a problem.
a movie that we cut at $1,000 to 15.
>> All right, second that.
>> Second was
>> Louise.
>> Louise, thanks. Sorry it didn't light
you up. Great. Okay. Uh, any discussion?
Fantastic. Liz,
>> yes.
>> Bill,
>> Louise,
>> yes.
>> Heather,
>> Nick,
>> yes.
>> Kim,
>> yes. me. Yes. Fantastic, guys.
Boom. All right. There we go. So, that
we saved $1,000. All right. Um,
so much is for the assessor. Okay. So,
this one I'm a little uncertain about.
Um,
what I got out of Roberta when I asked
her about this issue, this mileage issue
was that basically we have a new person
who needs some training in classes. And
so it's probably put in for mileage,
whereas our current um assessor guy
apparently really doesn't put in for his
mileage, which is why we keep seeing
this thing not being used, but he's
actually entitled to it.
So her take was be careful about cutting
that down.
>> I I don't necessarily
>> It's 500 bucks.
>> Yep. I I I'm going to tell you I think
you should keep the mileage on this one
simply because the new
uh person that's working in an office is
going to get trained in the um in the
facility in Waterberry. So she's going
to have mileage. Just just letting you
know. So
>> right, it's essentially what Bur told
me. Thanks. So thanks Jeff. I agree with
that. Uh if anybody disagrees and wants
to make a change to that line, fine.
Otherwise, I think we should leave it.
It's just not a lot of money and and we
may we actually have a need for it this
year that we might we haven't had in the
past.
Um,
we had a question about books. So, this
here we just we had made a cut last time
and I just think we we roll with that.
But book subscriptions. So she said
there's NADA books that have changed her
subscription service for VIN check for
some sort of VIN checker software and
that's why this number went up.
So
um I would be inclined I I would suggest
again is it it's not a lot of money and
there's a justification for it. I would
suggest we leave it unless anyone else
has
you know a belief that we should cut it.
I I don't want to make it such that they
can't do the job.
>> No, don't believe it. Especially if you
had a conversation with Roberto.
>> Yeah, we just wanted to clear it up.
That's all.
>> Yeah. No, I I agree. I've been having
and my head's spinning a little bit.
I've got all these notes because I've
talked to Robera. I've talked to Kate.
I even talked to Chris. I talked a lot
to people this week. It's been there's
been a lot. Uh but I that one made sense
to me.
Um,
uh, let's see.
Most of these I think we kind of already
talked about and talked through. Um,
this we highlighted them, but we, you
know, I feel like we talked about them
last time and and I think
this was the one I guess we could talk
about a little bit more, but because
we're just I I'm perfectly fine with
paying more for our election folks who
are doing more, but it was a big
increase. Um, so I don't know if anybody
wants to rever revisit this one. Did you
talk to uh Wall-E and Linda about it?
>> That that is that one I didn't get to. I
apologize, guys. I could try to um if I
could catch somebody tomorrow,
>> but I I can't I can't tell you tonight.
I did not get a chance.
>> Okay.
>> Uh or if anybody else wants to try to
reach out and have that conversation,
I'd be thrilled. Uh because my day
tomorrow's pretty busy.
>> Um
>> who is that? Uh, Wall-E andor
>> Linda Derek.
>> Oh, Linda Derek.
>> Yeah,
>> I can give them a call if you want. Uh,
>> that that'd be great, Bill. If we can
maybe just come back to that next time.
>> And um I'm sorry. It's 121
>> 8:30 meals.
>> 8:30.
>> Just it's it's just a big jump. It's
It's not a lot of money. It's $1,000.
>> Okay.
Um, but our past experience numbers were
a lot lower and it doesn't look like
we're expending
this year. Now, we do have this year,
you know, midterms coming up. So, you'd
expect this to jump. It's just a
question of is that jump
make sense? So,
you follow I think I think it's just a
question. Frankly, again, we're not
making some sort of giant savings here
if we cut this. But
>> um
we had a question on town planner wages
last time
because and it wasn't a huge thing. And
I just asked about
where there whether there why do we have
kind of a town planner down here and a
project manager up there and Kate's take
was that there's no real overlap there.
This does the plan of conservation and
development uh and and something else I
forget now. Uh whereas the other one is
really for assisting the administrator
I think in project management and grant
writing and that sort of thing.
>> The town planner just finished finished
up the POC
>> that he worked on well the planning and
zoning commission worked on for almost
two years. Now, he's gonna be working on
on affordable housing,
>> which is gonna come up quickly. Now,
>> thank you for that, Scott. That's the
other one I the other issue that she
mentioned and I didn't get in my notes.
So, yeah.
Um,
this here I think had to do with a
specific printer that died.
Um,
>> yeah. And I think Kate said, was this
the printer that she was it this printer
or was it one? I think this is the one
that prints out the big big maps.
>> Broad printer.
>> It's the building department. So, you're
going to have You're going to be
building
>> That's why it's more
>> building plans. Um,
>> yeah.
>> So, I think that's why it was in there.
>> Um, it's
needed. It was more of a maybe more of a
last year thing than a this year thing,
but I think they had left it in there.
Um, I don't know if anybody else has
thoughts on that. I mean,
the the the
supply budget pretty lean and we already
cut some,
so
not sure.
>> Oh, yeah. Oh, so they actually did buy
that printer already, right?
>> I think they had to. I think the old
printer was actually eating things.
>> Yes.
>> Uh according to what K told me.
>> So we don't need the 1800.
>> So it's still just sitting in that line
item. Okay.
>> Well, I thought they used it though.
See, this is the weird part. And I got a
little confused when I was talking to
folks about
sometimes apparently
different supply budgets get used for
things
and this is why somehow there's only it
looks like there's nothing expended
here. Lisa, do you happen to know
where that that printer got taken out
of?
It's okay if you don't. It's been an
issue.
>> No, because it was probably bought
before I came, so I'm not familiar with
it, but So, you're saying that it could
have come out of supplies for the
building department? I mean, I
>> or or town clerk or somewhere else. I It
sounds like things have been a little
wishy-washy in terms of whose budget
gets used to do a thing that needs to
happen immediately.
Um, we had bought one where I was before
and we split it up actually between
three departments. Um, but I wish I had
the vendor name so I could just look and
see where it went to.
Um, because obviously if only Let me
just see if it's since December has been
purchased.
>> Let me just go look.
>> Okay.
I I would tell you that Rob, you're
you're accurate that there is a an
inconsistency within the finance
department as to which supply account
things get posted to. Um it is something
that um Lisa and I have been talking
about as I've been reviewing the bills
and having to sit there and get them to
be signed as to who's determining which
account gets used for that. So, um
hopefully we can sit there and make some
adjustments um to that process and get
it posted to a more accurate account
line. So,
>> okay.
>> And if if we had bought there's nothing
else in there besides that $35.
>> She said it came out of the tax
collector tax collector supply budget
that printer.
>> Okay. Let me see.
>> So, I'm not quite sure
>> which is strange with this line. Wow.
>> I mean, those are like
>> tens of thousands. That's like a $10,000
printer. That broad printer. They're
very expensive. They'd be like a monthly
lease payment of three or $400. So,
>> I thought she I thought she said it was
1,800 bucks. But, okay.
>> To to I mean,
>> maybe it just makes sense that when
we're saying supplies for the building
department that that's the paper and the
materials going into that department to
sit there and operate that department.
>> And
>> I don't think it's a printer. It
shouldn't be a printer.
>> No,
>> no, there's nothing in the tax collector
line either.
>> Okay.
>> But that's what we did when we purchased
a broad printer. It was the clerk's
department because she had to print land
maps and the tax collector and uh not
the tax collector, the assessor
and uh the building department and they
all split the cost of that new broad
printer. But it's a very very expensive
printer and it I don't think it was just
$1,800. It was
>> It was It was It was definitely not.
This is this is this is where there's
inconsistencies inconsistencies as to
where things are being posted and what
they're for because that broad printer
to me the paper is going to be a bigger
>> and the print the ink. Yes.
>> Uh Carol, sorry Carol raised her hand.
Do you have further on that?
>> So the wide format printer was bought a
few years back with a grant that the
town clerk's office got. Um, and we did
stock up on paper and things like that,
but obviously they're low now. So, it
probably is just the paper and the ink
because those are both very expensive.
>> Oh, the ink. I got you.
>> Yep.
>> So, it's I think we were just we went
through this. I think we were just
keying in on this number right here that
it didn't look like this line was being
expended. So, why are we leaving it? But
>> I don't I will say in the building
department there could be I know a lot
of times fire code manuals change and
they're very expensive. They're like
$400 a book or something.
>> It's just maybe something where it's
sort of cyclical and we're in that
position where we need it and
>> or I don't Yeah, I don't know if there's
me no membership is separate. Okay. But
I know that those code books can be
expensive and they update them a lot. I
don't know if that's what it is or not.
>> All right. Um,
we made a small cut here. I don't know
if it warrants any further discussion. I
didn't ask anybody about this one. Uh,
payroll services. This was a this is a
meta discussion that I don't think we're
doing now. Um, this again gets back to
what are we doing going forward with
payroll. I
I don't know may whether we get a
service or not. I don't know if we're in
position to make that call right now.
But Lisa, what I know you would have you
would prefer to have a different
>> ADP she said, right?
>> ADP, I believe, is what you mentioned.
>> I would cuz when when Kim just asked me
to go in and look up the hours for that
person, it was this massive spreadsheet
to see hours for somebody and it it's
unruly to me and I I just I it's no help
to me. This QuickBooks thing is I don't
know. Jeff knows. I'm not happy with it
at all. So just just look just don't
don't go to the the report. Go to the
individual employee.
>> I did
>> and then sit there and in that area you
can run a specific report just for that
employee and just see that employees
information. Um to to answer the
question, I don't think you put any
extra money in as a payroll service
because if this is truly what Lisa wants
to get done and we decide to do it, that
would come out of the assistant
treasurer's compensation.
Okay.
>> Okay.
>> Wait, I'm confused. If we decided to
switch out of the compensation line,
though,
>> you're not going to switch. You're not
going to switch. You're not going to
switch anything. What I said was if the
choice is made to go to a payroll
service, you would want to reduce the
assistant treasurer's compensation
because the majority a good portion of
that job is related to processing
payroll.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Gotcha.
>> I mean, Lisa Lisa Lisa has legitimate
>> issues related to the payroll setup
within QuickBooks. Without a doubt, 100%
not done correctly. we need to fix it.
And if the choice is to go to a payroll
service, which
>> you know, you can do it. And and Lisa
knows, she and I have had this
conversation multiple times as to what's
right and what's wrong and and and can
it be done correctly? Yes, it can be
done correctly. It needs to be set up
correctly. So, if Lisa's Lisa's desire
as the treasurer is to come to the the
board of finance and the board of
selectman and say, "I'd like to get to a
payroll service," then we're going to
have to sit there and get the cost of
the payroll service and then we're going
to have to sit there and make some
adjustments to the assistant treasurer's
salary.
>> Okay,
>> makes sense.
>> So, the take would be they'd leave this
alone.
>> Uh oh, Carol, go ahead.
>> Sorry about that. I just had a question
about that with the payroll service
because we did have prime pay before
Jeff and I I thought you wanted to go to
QuickBooks so and the QuickBooks payroll
because we had you know the Phoenix
system for financial first and then we
went to admins and I thought you were in
favor of getting us over to QuickBooks
for our financial system and also for
payroll.
>> I I am. It saves it saves us money. But
uh as you know, Carol, I was uh
requested to not get involved in the
finance department and I was not
involved in the setup of the system, but
the people that we had setting it up and
running it did not do as an effective
job as we they should have. So, if you
are asking me, and I've said this to
Lisa, QuickBooks is not a difficult
system to operate, but it is a difficult
system to operate if it's set up
incorrectly.
>> So, are you in there setting it up
correctly with Lisa? You're not.
>> No.
No.
>> You want to ask that question in a
different way? Am I Am I advising Am I
advising Lisa as to what might need to
be done? Absolutely.
Okay. So, is there a chance that that
will work itself out with the payroll, I
guess, is what I'm asking, rather than
go back to
>> another payroll company that's more
expensive. Well, it could and and it's a
possible, but you have to remember Lisa
is the treasurer and if she wants it
done in a certain way and we can
financially afford it and it makes
sense, then we should sit there and
listen to her. So, she has a way that
she wants to do it and and honestly,
that's not a problem to me. What what
Lisa needs to do in that situation is
get us the costs related to what the
payroll service would be. and she has
legitimate she has total legitimate
reasons to do it. There's less um uh
there's less liability, there's less
chance for mistakes. Um there's probably
somewhat better reporting, but there's
just those are things we got to do.
Lisa's got to make that decision.
>> And we did talk about it a little bit
last week and and I believe Lisa's gut
take was maybe it's a $3,000 problem,
but we can talk about that going
forward. Well, for this year, remember
we said it was a thousand only because
the first
>> the teaser rate
>> six months are free. Yeah. Next year it
would be a difference. Yeah. This year
would be $1,000.
>> So, what I want to get to, guys, cuz
that's all interesting. Let's in the
interest of moving forward.
>> Then we should leave this line item
alone is is basically what we're talking
about, right? We'll leave it alone for
now. Move on because I I really want to
try and get through more
of this budget. Um, if if there's a
reason to cut this, fine. Otherwise,
just leave it. And we'll come back to
the issue when Lisa has a moment to take
a breath.
>> Never.
>> Yeah. No, no, no. Don't think that it's
not that. All right. So, this was a big
one, guys. Uh, that we've been talking
about the Kerma insurance line.
Right now, it's showing a zero increase
because I don't think we have an
estimate, but that can't be right. Or at
least I can't imagine that's right. I
>> I can't either. I've always heard from
them before now and I even emailed them
before now. So,
>> maybe I'll talk to some other contacts I
have and see what they have received so
far. I can't see that Kerma would be
this late in the process.
>> It's bizarre to me. I mean, you can see,
I mean, this is this is our property
casualty insurance, our work comp,
things like that. They're going to go
up. Uh, it it's not necessarily like the
healthcare, but it's going to go up by
some percentage. And I hate to have this
number here. If it's low, I was wrong.
So,
let's let's see if we can find out. Uh,
it's really late in the game, but
this remains a worry for me.
But what's the percentage increase from
2024 to 2025? Maybe we could do like an
estimate for
at least something a little more
>> uh 7 like 7.16.
>> Sorry, I just did the formula right
here.
>> Um if you divide this by this.
>> Yep.
>> So if you assumed Sorry,
>> is that something to consider? this
you'd get to 131ish
131400 something like that.
It gets to a point where we're going to
have to put a dummy number in there if
we don't have anything else. And you
know
whether we want to pick 5% or 7% or what
have you, but it shouldn't be this that
there just no way you're getting a flat
number. I can't see that. Yeah, I agree.
>> Does three-year contract mean it's the
same rate for three years
>> for workers comp? Yes.
>> What a work comp. I don't think property
casualty works that way.
>> And that's both. That's workers comp and
property casualty.
>> Am I right about that, Lisa? Am I
>> in that line? Yes, that is both. But the
workers comp is the one we usually get
the
>> And is that also like our property
insurance like our fire insurance and
>> Yep. Yep.
>> Yep.
>> That's Prop GL. It's crime insurance,
bond insurance, it's all different.
That's all the municipalities.
>> It's basically everything but health,
right? I mean, health and dental.
>> Yes. And life. Yeah.
>> I do not believe the fire department is
included in that. I believe the fire
department has a different policy for a
company in Coventry.
>> When I say fire insurance, sorry,
Jeeoff, I I mean property. Sorry, I'm
talking as a PNC guy.
>> Um, sorry, term of art. I I meant, you
know, first party property coverage.
Yeah.
>> Um,
>> we'll have we'll have an answer on that.
Uh,
>> yeah, I'll give a call. I'll have to
find out the I don't know if it's the
same rep as I had where I was before,
but I'll have to call.
>> Okay. I mean, the only reason I again,
and I really don't mean to be a pain,
but we sort of need to make a decision
on that tomorrow.
>> Uh, well, I'm just wondering, could it
be Jeff Magcguire? Could it be in the
email for town administrator and we just
haven't seen it because that's been
open.
>> Kate's been checking that weekly, right?
>> Correct.
>> So,
I have a I have a request. I have a
request and um
>> too. Yeah.
>> Um so, I was just told that there's no
set increase for kerma going across the
board from a percentage standpoint. So,
um, we'll get an answer on that, but I I
will tell you the kerma rate over the
last number of years hasn't escalated
very much to be really honest. It was a
lot. Um,
it's been a hund It's never I've never I
never remember it being greater than
$105,000.
And so this year it might be going up
slightly, but I wouldn't expect it. It's
not like Rob it's going to go up to
$150,000. It's not like our health
insurance. So it it's going to be a
smaller increase, but we will get a
number for you. I I will work with Lisa
and in the kerma of people and get you
an answer.
>> Okay, I appreciate that and I completely
agree. I don't expect it to be like the
healthcare and and these things are
affected by things just like what our
claims are and what what the claims
experience has been. If we have some
claims dropping off their radar, you
could even see benefits. So that's fine.
Um, I just want as a board for the board
of finance to put a number in there
that's realistic so that we're not
shorting it. That's all.
So, yeah, get back to us on that as soon
as you can. Thank you very much. Um, we
increased this line. I had a long
conversation today
um with both Kate and Lisa about about
this about this particularly about the
stipens, right? And I think we've
covered it, but something I wasn't aware
of in the past is apparently the
contracts that govern what we do for the
stipens, which means the people who
don't take the town's insurance, they
agree to kind of take a chunk of money
from the town and not go on our
insurance. that those have clauses,
those contracts have clauses where 50%
of what the cost would be goes and makes
up their stipend.
Uh, and I wanted to make sure that this
number
is accurate and inclusive
not just of the healthcare premium
increase but of that stipid increase.
So, we did a flat change to this number
where we pumped it up 21% as opposed to
15. I hope that covers it. Does anybody
have thoughts on that as to whether we
handled that properly?
>> So, you're saying the stipen has to go
up because the insurance is going up.
>> That's right. My understanding
>> and that's forever or
>> No, those contracts are renegotiated
periodically. Uh my understanding is
we're getting one this year that's
coming due
>> uh and one that comes due in 27.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> However, right, and the flip side to it
would be if I was one of the people um
affected by said contract, I'd certainly
fight hard to keep uh a clause like that
in there. But yes, we we have one
expiring I think June 30th and the other
one expires I think probably June 30th,
27. That'll have to be renegotiated.
Well, you when you say one like a
person,
>> there are different kind of employees
that are governed by different that are
in different unions.
Uh I don't have chapter and verse on
this personally. I don't have the recall
on it, but um it can be like one person.
It could be two people.
>> I just meant like when when you had
contract. Yeah, it's for some people and
then another.
>> And since with different unions, they're
not they're not necessarily the same
schedule. That's all.
>> Carol, I'm you have your hand up. I I
just wanted to say that it's part of the
personnel policy that um employees who
opt not to take the insurance get 50% of
the cost of single insurance. So if you
were to call the RAM consortium and find
out we have six employees let's say that
are on and the insurance whether it's a
twoerson a family or single insurance
and then you'd be able to easily
calculate what the single insurance is
um you know if it ends up being $600 per
month
>> it's96
right now without
>> without 21% %
>> and it's definitely going up 21% not the
15.
>> Yeah, that was um that that is my
understanding that that came out of the
consortium
>> a week or two ago.
>> There's a meeting on Thursday about it
and I told Val I would go with her but
so I'll hear what they say on Thursday.
>> Okay. And then
>> great you could be our liazison and
report back. Thank you Heather.
>> Y
>> I really appreciate that. Uh, you know,
as as far as we know right now, Carol,
we're looking at 21%. Yes.
>> Okay. Does it I we had heard 15 before
what? Last month.
>> Yeah. And then I can look it up when um
I got the word from the last meeting.
Valerie attended and immediately alerted
me it's now 21.
Not great.
>> So, we did a quick and dirty here. What
we did here is we just cranked this up
to instead of plus 15 plus 21. I hope
that's the right way to do it. If it's
not, please tell me. Uh because I want
to get this line right. The last thing I
want to do is underfund this line. I
also don't want to, you know, obviously
if if we're doing this wrong and
but I just think since it seems tied
together,
it makes sense to go up to 21 to make
sure that we're okay here.
>> Can I just suggest all the more reason
to put that by department so we can see
exactly what every department and you'd
have a clear picture of what that would
be.
I I wouldn't have any objection to that
going forward when if and when. I mean,
I don't think we're going to accomplish
that between now and and taking this
budget to meeting, but it Lisa, what is
your thought on disagregating that line?
>> Um
I I don't have a problem July 1. I mean,
it's you guys budget, but I'm just
sitting here right now because like I
told Rob about an hour ago because just
everything in this office is a
whirlwind. I'm looking at the spring
bill. Well, I can see who's on it. Um,
and now I'm trying to figure out who
gets a stipen, how much their stipen is,
look at the union contracts. So, I don't
want to give you fake numbers or, you
know, incorrect numbers for me to try
and figure out by department. It I don't
think I can get it done for you. I was
trying to get this just a basic how many
you have on insurance, single, family,
single, I mean plus one, and how many
you have on the stipen, but I didn't
even have time to do that today.
>> The the issue the issue is not even the
current spring bill. The issue is the
positions that are unfilled and the
position will be filled and what will
their level of insurance be. So, you
have to estimate for those empty
positions, and that's what I was trying
to do, but
>> I'm sure the town administrator will
probably want insurance. I would think
we just got a new assessor assistant um
that's going to need it. Um
>> h how many hours do we have does
somebody have to work before they can
get insurance from the town?
>> Isn't it 20?
>> 20.
>> That's pretty low.
>> Is that right, Lisa? 20.
again what I'm hearing maybe Jeff knows
better than I but go I'm trying to go
through
>> I thought that was the federal number
>> well I don't know where I came from it
was 30 it wasn't 20
>> 30 seems low
>> so I don't think it was f I don't think
that's a federal mandate I don't know
>> um
>> Carol's got her hand up maybe she knows
>> yeah Carol do you know the answer
>> it's 20 hours for single coverage and 30
hours for family. So if you
>> Oh, okay.
>> We had to uh um Am I on mute? No,
>> no, no, you're you're
>> we had to we had to sit there and give a
previous board of selectman member who
was working 20 hours at the transfer
station health insurance and that's how
we got stuck in this position.
>> It's 20 hours. It's bad. And and to be
really honest, the contracts aren't any
better as far as the amount of money
being paid by the employees.
>> It's very small. It's not a lot.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, and the other thing is you're
giving the stipend out to people that
are working.
>> You mean in terms in terms of what their
contribution to the premium is?
>> 14% right now.
>> Okay. As opposed to the
>> 30% we pay private sector. Yeah.
>> And that can't be changed because it's
under contract.
>> Oh, it can be. you have to renegotiate
it.
>> But the problem the problem, Heather, is
that it's been
>> um
>> it's been ingrained and you're trying to
sit there and up it. And yes, there's
increases, but the increases have gone
like uh I was just looking at the
contract this morning and it was 14% for
last year, 14% for this year, and then
it moves up on one of the negotiated
contracts to a whopping 15% the
following year. So you know that is why
that is why it's very important for this
board and for the board of selectment to
work together on the salary side because
the benefits actually have some value to
them.
>> Yeah. So going back to the stipen,
is that something that we want to
address going forward
as far as like as this in percentage
increase goes up, the stipen goes up,
should we just set a a level amount and
keep it at that going forward?
>> And do I mean, Bill, if I had my way, I
would put everybody on a stipen and get
them all off the health insurance, but
we can't.
>> I know. So, so yes, there is there is
again what should be done and and hasn't
been done in the past is uh we should be
engaged in the negotiation on these
unions. Now, we have the union for the
public works coming up that has to get
negotiated. We should sit there and and
all be on the same page as to what we
would like to accomplish as we negotiate
moving forward. that doesn't help you
here for this budget process, but those
are all things that we should be talking
about and having an understanding on
because
>> so my main concern and I completely
agree with that. My main concern here is
line 141-215.
Are we in the right place for this? Is
this get us what we need to to get
through this budget year? We can
obviously hope for
improvement going forward, but is is
this the right answer?
Um, from from my standpoint, Rob, you're
not low. Um, you know, it's it's
something that I I can't tell you right
now, and I don't think Lisa can tell you
right now that you should cut it. So,
what you did was you just increased in
the appropriate percentage. So, if it
was going from where it was last year to
where it's going to go, I mean, you can
sit there and tell that the town I mean,
listen, health insurance needs to be
evaluated, but at the town level right
now, we have about six people on this
policy, right? We don't have 20. I mean,
the school has 60 people on this policy.
So, you have a whole other different
realm of of problems related to health
insurance,
>> right? Um, do I think that number that
number would be high to me, but I can't
tell you. I would tell you not to sit
there and do that. What I would tell you
to do is go back to the treasurer and
I'll work with their focus on that
number and get you guys a set number
that makes sense.
>> Okay, for now I think we should leave it
and we'll hear if we hear more. Great.
>> Yep.
>> Um, okay. Because again, I'm trying to
move through this.
We made some minor changes here. Um,
we had this one question about HVAC
maintenance for the community center
which seemed to jump from practically,
you know, is this a contracted amount?
Is that exactly the right number? It's
because it's exactly the same as last
year.
>> Th those hours on I'm sorry on your
community assistant assistant are really
low
>> this here.
>> Yeah, because
>> I don't I don't know that we touched
this.
No, these pink ones were border
selectman changes that I remember here.
Let me let me make sure of something. By
the way,
sorry. Um, this is Lisa's new
chart. Hang on. Where were we? Community
center. I want to make sure this is
right. 195.
Same. So, these pink numbers, if memory
serves, Lisa put in pink what had come
out of your last meeting.
This is not us.
>> Okay.
>> Uh so I don't know if this is low.
>> Uh
>> okay. Let's talk about it. I mean
>> we cut that one down quite a bit.
>> Assistant.
>> Well, we're over we're we're going to be
over budget on that line item because of
a lot of issues, Ann, that we're all
fully aware of, right? Oh, yeah. We
direct. I'm just I'm just sitting there.
I'm just sitting there in my head going,
you have right now in the setup for the
for the community center, you have uh a
10-hour per week person doing the
drivers and then you have an assistant
into the uh the community center
director, you know, that's getting paid
more money than she should right now.
But I just think that number is way low.
>> And I don't even know how we got the the
revenue the expenditure numbers. Well, I
do know because the treasur's office put
money into the uh the wages for the
director and that's why that line item
is going to be way over even though it
should have been put into the assistant.
Um
I I just sit there and I tell you I I
think that number is way low for the
services that should be rendered to the
seniors.
And when I say way low, I think you
should at least have 25 hours a week in
there, 15 hours for the assistant and 10
hours for the the drivers, unless the
board of selectmen. And and listen, I I
don't remember everything. Did we put th
those hours in
the um
there is a line there is not not under
the community center, but there is
something in here over uh senior
driving.
>> That's where it is under driving. Yeah,
there's a driving number in here
somewhere. Um,
>> not in this lineup, but a whole
different section.
>> Yeah, hold it. So, stay up here and then
we'll get you'll get to we'll get So,
this here, I mean, again, this was our
understanding of what the Boris Luckman
wanted and this was the explanation that
we got 15 hours or $25 an hour.
>> Um,
again, if guys, if this isn't the right
answer,
>> we need you to tell us how many hours.
>> Yeah. I mean, I don't again, I
personally have no intention of of
shorting this line. At the same time,
obviously, every change we're making,
we're increasing things. So,
uh, yeah, talk to me. I mean, should we
go down and find that driver line?
>> Yeah,
>> I I kind of feel like we should. Um,
where is that under?
Let's find it.
I mean, Lisa, do you have the
information provided to you by Tess and
what was requested on that line?
>> Does Tess talk? I talked to Tess, too.
That's the other thing. I have notes
somewhere. Give me a moment, guys. Um,
>> so this is
>> senior citizens. Here we go. Uh,
>> is there driving under here? Senior
transportation.
>> Yeah. Right. Right. See,
>> so we do have
>> Yeah, driver's dispatch. Right. Yeah,
but that that's the drivers. We have
drivers. So, so there's no there's no
additional cost for uh
>> the person managing those drivers, which
falls back up was falling back up into
the community center line.
>> Oh, so that's okay. So, that is
supervisory. Let me go back up.
>> It's the person doing all the
scheduling.
>> Yeah,
I see your point.
That was left blank by um by Tess the
the community center assistant. That was
left blank. Jeff.
>> Okay.
>> Apologies everybody. I'm I'm looking at
all my various notes because I did have
a conversation with Tess about this
stuff.
>> Actually, I was on the uh board of
select meeting last last week and I do
remember Jeff you saying that amount the
third 15 hours at $25 per hour.
>> True. Tess, I have a note here from Tess
about drivers for seniors.
Um, might want to add a line under
seedure transport for about
200 bucks for CPR and stop the bleed
training.
>> Yeah, that's a kermit requirement.
>> There was a training line item in that
budget down below.
>> Yeah, let me look at that again. Sorry,
guys. I know I'm scrolling frantically
through here, but
um
where was it? Here's the
>> seen it just a minute ago. I remember
seeing training somewhere.
>> Yeah, I don't see it. Oh, you mean this?
>> Oh, yeah. There.
>> There.
>> Yeah.
>> Safety, CPR, first aid.
>> We have an increase in there. Okay.
Okay. Okay. That's for the training of
the um when the stove comes in and
>> Oh, for the kitchen staff.
>> For the kitchen. Yes, Chess had
mentioned that.
>> Right.
>> So, the question is, is the 15 hours
adequate or do we need to increase that?
>> That's right.
>> We need to make a choice here. Uh let's
go back up.
>> That's the recom that's what you put in
your last
>> That's what we had from your meeting. So
if we want to do something here, you
know, basically make the argument, uh,
Jeff, your take is this is low. Great.
What would you,
what do you think it ought to be?
>> I would make it 25 hours.
So you have 10 hours thousand. Hang on.
>> You have 10 hours for the driver and you
have
>> 325.
>> 325,
>> right? 25 hours at $25 an hour.50. for
52 52 weeks.
>> Is there discussion from the other board
of
>> Yeah, let's let's talk the rest of you
guys. Boris, please chime in.
>> Remember trying to remember if did we
say that
the test says the director would be
managing the um transportation part
again.
trying to remember that
because they're getting the um
>> from my
>> computer program
that will help them do that.
>> They're getting a computer program to
deal with scheduling and to track the in
the people going in and out, not
>> sitting there scheduling. But
>> I thought that was part of it. I'm
sorry.
>> No, no, no, no. You're you're not you're
not wrong that that's going to help. But
the issue ends up being are we
I mean my take is that the community
center right now is being run in a
certain manner where where we have a
higher hourly rate on the current
assistant who is supposed to be putting
in 19 hours or in the ballpark and then
you have on top of that and this is
where I would tell you I don't know
where it's going. So, they're paying and
they had been paying the previous um
driver coordinator.
So, it could be that they've been
putting it all in driver salaries and
that is something that we have to find
out. I'm just telling you that I'm
looking at it as a total community
center standpoint. You got the the
director that's, you know, 30 hours. You
would have 15 hours as an assistant to
help with keeping it open at certain
points in time and then you would have
10 hours a week for the driver
coordinator. That's what that's what I
believe should be there. Now, the other
members of the board of selectmen
disagree or they think that they want
the the director to be responsible for
the the driving profile, which I don't
agree with.
>> Why can't the driver coordinator be just
separated out?
>> I agree. I I think it is I think under
uh driver/dispatch.
I believe that the dispatcher is also in
there. That's
>> be under community center.
>> Okay. So, let's find that out. And if it
is, that's great.
>> There's no dispatch, but
>> there it is right there.
>> Yeah. driver/dispatch
because it just used the driver salary
and then they and then it was combined.
Um, let me see if I can see when that
was done.
>> That That's the drivers and the dispatch
together. Why Why is it together?
>> We're together and it and it works. It
works. I'm all okay with it.
>> Works.
>> Okay, then then we don't have to add any
more hours above. I think we're okay
unless we hear from
>> adding hours to the assistant, right?
>> Yeah. If we hear from Tess after this
year that it's insufficient,
>> maybe we make a change, but for now, I
don't know. We're funding this at a
pretty good level. Um pretty high level.
>> Um
as for why it's together rather than
disagregated, uh I would defer to Lisa
going forward on that. For now, it is
what it is.
>> We got to get through this.
>> Yeah. Um
>> um can I make can I
>> comment list? Go ahead.
>> Just to say can you go back to that line
the dispatch line for
>> Oh, sorry. I was going back up.
Apologies. This one here.
>> I just looked at our last year's budget
because the last year's budget we have
all those tabs with everything very
>> y
>> spelled out. And our budget for
driverispatch
for
all the drivers and I assume the
dispatcher is 45,320.
>> That's reflected right here.
>> Okay. Right there. Okay. Yeah. So
>> So this is a 3%. This is just they they
often do a 3%. So there we are. Um, and
also, um, I know that right now Tessa's,
uh, contract is for 26 hours. Um, so I
guess the conversation or the question
is how many hours for for the coming
year for the director and the assistant
director? I think I might have gotten
confused on that. Did we want to bump
that up? Did we want to keep it at what
she was? And I'm also going to bring up
um the dreaded conversation about the um
the stipen for the
senior what's what's municipal agent
>> agent
>> um
>> municipal agent for the elderly I think
is the
>> and I don't know my feeling was always
that that should fall under the duties
and salary of the of the director that
was always my opinion and um yeah, can't
win everything. So, I'm willing to, you
know, listen to other people's thoughts
about that.
>> Well, Carol had her hand up when you
started talking about um your first
question. So, Carol, did you have
something? drivers.
>> I was just going to say the stipen for
municipal agent/director
of social services
was given to Tess and that is what
bumped her from the 26 hours to
>> I guess 30. I didn't realize that it was
bumping her up that many hours per week,
but that
>> Oh, I didn't know. Right. because her
contract is 26 hours per week for the
starting salary was 45. I think she's up
to 47 now.
>> Um,
>> yep.
>> But that was the reason for that jump in
the hours was for her to cover that
municipal a social services piece.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> Kind of already been consolidated is
what you're telling us?
>> No, there's a separate line item,
>> right? There's separate line items. Um
the stip pend is one, but that was just
the way that was originally set up when
um back when Roberta had that because as
the assistant to the assessor and then
she was social services municipal agent.
>> So there it is the resident services
coordinator. Is that it?
>> Correct.
>> 145100.
Uh
>> to be really honest at the next board of
selectment meeting there has to be
discussion regarding u Tessa's contract
and um approval of it moving forward.
>> So under the budgetary guidelines that
you guys have here.
>> Okay.
from this standpoint of us making
decisions then I mean
I'm open um you know anybody on the
board want to speak up but my gut take
is we leave the numbers where they are
>> I think we leave the numbers where they
are
>> I agree
>> all right I'm going to All right so this
is as far as we got last time I believe
this is where we stopped I believe
because there's nothing Oh no wait
that's not true
Um, okay. We had a DMV lookup access
line here. Um, Board of Assessment
Appeals wanted this. I talked to Kate
about this and I got kind of an
interesting commentary from her
that boils down to that BAA doesn't
actually need technically to do this.
Um, as in
in terms of the burden of proof to
challenge your auto automotive tax bill,
you are supposed to bring you're
supposed to be able to bring the proof
and show that it's wrong. And this
lookup isn't really technically
necessary. I think what BAA is trying to
do, however,
is help the public out a little bit to
be able to show them what the basis is.
So, and maybe try to smooth some of this
out before it gets into, you know, a big
fight. But, and it's 380 bucks. But
Kate's take was this isn't actually
necessary because they aren't legally
required
to do that little kind of helping hand.
It's it's the the burden of proof is on
the taxpayer.
>> Well, how does the town how does the
assessor actually come up with the
amount that's being built
>> and they have a system I guess that so I
asked K I said well what are these
disputes about? It's like basically it's
it's almost never resolved in um you
know a tax cut but the only time it ever
happens is when you've got say say you
have a Toyota Corolla and you've got
model XL and the tax bill for some
reason is based on XLE right it's worth
slightly more uh and there's a mistake
and you know if you could prove that
then it could change something but
otherwise it's really pretty much just
this is the make and model of your
vehicle and how old it is and here you
go. What I'm saying is can't can't the
>> can't can't the board of assessment
appeals use the same software that the
assessor uses to argue that point we
need separate
>> I think there was access issue
>> they won't share you remember
>> they won't share it
>> they won't yeah
>> access problem
>> so this this lets them go kind of into
the DMV and show people like this is how
your assessment works
>> it's 380 bucks I mean yeah we got a lot
of other numbers to go out.
>> Yeah, I know. I don't want to spend a
ton of time on this. Carol, sorry, you
have your hand up. Do you have further
on this?
>> I just wanted to ask Jeff Magguire.
Jeff, didn't the uh statute change
actually where the percentages of
reduction went by the year of your car?
So, they actually would need this to
justify any reduction that they would
make from what I understand. Is that how
you understood Jeff Magcguire?
Uh it it is a more standardized process.
But Carol, the issue is that if you are
requesting a rebate on your taxes, you
need to provide the information to the
board of assessment appeals that sits
there and says this is how much it's
after. What the board of assessment
appeals is after honestly is the board
of assessment appeals is after 30 10 it
costs $38 per lookup. They're asking for
10 lookups to go to an outside service,
but to be really honest, the person
coming to the board of assessment
appeals should go and pay the $38 and
bring it to the board of assessment
appeals.
>> There you go.
>> Okay. Thanks.
>> Yep.
So, I make the motion that you wipe out
the $380
and going forward that's up to the
person requesting the appeal. As Jeff
just stated,
>> I'll second that because I think that's
an excellent idea.
>> I agree.
>> I think you can also go to the library,
can't you? And get that information.
>> Probably, but
>> yeah. So, why would you need it on hand
just in case?
>> I don't know. I think they're having uh
>> it's important to them. Um,
>> I know the BAA folks wanted this, but I
also understand
>> I know they understand I actually
understand where everybody else coming
from, too.
>> Yeah.
>> And I agree, too. But I I also think if
the town pays for things for people to
do their job or whatever and log in and
out of, then it technically really does
belong to the town. And I'm not sure why
if we've already paid for something that
we have, it can't be utilized by
everyone who needs the access to it. You
know what I mean? Like my work gives me
a laptop. It doesn't become mine
personally after my work has given it to
me.
>> So you're going back to the assessor's
program. We should be able to use that,
>> right? So why you know what I'm saying?
Like this is part of your job or
whatever. So, I kind of see both sides
of this. I get it. I I totally get it.
>> You you're you're not wrong. And
honestly, I asked that question to the
assessor yesterday, and I sat there and
said, "Why can't we get the password and
be allowed to sit there and look at the
information?" And his his answer to me
was actually was you're you're coming in
and and I honestly think everybody
should really look at the board of
assessment appeals and who's appealing,
right? And who is doing all of the
appealing, it'll be really interesting
if you look at it. And when you sit
there and you do it, it's their
responsibility to come and sit there and
tell the assessor that he's wrong. And
listen, I think the assessor is wrong in
a lot of cases and I don't have a
problem with it, but you need it's a
really um tough system. Uh, and I asked
that question and his his answer was
they're they're trying to check my work
then bring the information to sit there
and prove that I am wrong to the board
of assessment appeals and then the board
of assessment appeals makes whatever
decision that they choose to make. Okay,
>> Bill, you had made the motion. Did we
have a second?
>> I second it. Louise.
>> Louise, thank you.
All right. Well, I admit I'm a little
torn on this, but in the interest of
moving on, I think unless there's other
commentary, we should take a vote.
>> All right,
>> Liz.
>> No.
>> Okay, Liz is a no. Bill,
>> yes.
>> Bill's
a yes. Okay, Kim.
>> Kim,
>> I'm torn on it, too. I I don't know.
>> I hear you.
You want me to come back to you?
>> Yeah, come back to me. Give me a second.
>> Okay, that's fine. Um, Nick,
>> I'll go with yes.
>> Okay.
Um, Heather,
>> I guess I'll go with yes as well.
>> Okay.
So, Bill, Heather, Nick. All right.
Louise, you seconded it.
>> And and second, I I'm torn as well, but
>> I am too.
>> Yeah, I go yes.
>> All right.
Um, that's enough for passage, by the
way. Um, I'm going to go I'm going to be
I'm going to go ahead and actually say
no because I don't know. I felt like the
BAA folks
had their reasons. But, okay. And, uh,
the last one, who did I skip? I'm sorry.
Kim
>> Kim
>> I'm gonna say yes but I am torn I I
really understand
>> I think this when we buy stuff for
people it it should belong to the town
>> right
>> not to a person not to a human
>> okay so it's
um Liz and I against everyone else four
five to two motion passes so we'll go
ahead and zero this line out.
Um
uh motion to zero out guesses. So this
is a zero.
Um okay, I think
yeah, I think that's as far as we got
last time. Now I will hopefully go back
and be able to rationalize this, but I
want to switch over. scaling me to
Lisa's new spreadsheet. This is the
actual new one. I was using the old one,
guys, as we went through this and
sharing my screen because of our old
notes because I for the life of me, I'm
not going to be able to remember
everything that we did, right? So, here
we are. Now, I can't remember, guys, if
we went through
every line here, if we jumped around a
little bit. Um cuz like for instance
like I don't think we did we talk about
town increase that's being requested. I
don't think we did.
>> We did.
>> I thought we did
>> community center. Did we talk about this
one? Okay. I
>> think we finished up with the community
the different community.
>> We went all the way to the community
center.
>> That was when I got
>> right here. Total community center. This
is as far as we got. I think that's
right.
So that moves us to town garage.
Um
we have here we have an explanation we
need training. I think we have some new
folks. I don't have an issue with this
if this reasonable. Um
yeah we talked about these estimates. I
I don't have any does anybody have any
questions in this area? I mean, this is
the only increase really. Well,
>> the town garage area.
>> Yeah.
>> I I have something I wanted to talk
about briefly. I won't take too long.
So, we heard about that diesel um I call
it a diesel measurement system or
something that seems to be failing. It's
it's 25 years
>> past its time. the one that measures the
diesel fuel for the school, the
>> how
>> public works and one other place
>> fire department.
>> It's the pump.
>> So, isn't it about time that we we
replace that?
>> Should we put that into the budget? I
mean,
>> that would be capital, right?
>> Would be in capital. Okay. I just want
to make sure that we do something about
that before we're using like, you know,
a piece of chalk and a chalkboard.
>> Agreed.
>> Well, that's that's that's totally fair.
I I guess my question would be when we
get to capital, which is going to be an
important discussion. Um whether it's
tonight or tomorrow night, I don't know
yet. But when we get to it, where under
capital is where that that goes. We have
a number of different capital funds. Um,
there's I think there's a town garage
fund, but off the top of my head, I got
to look back at the audit and I got to
look at our
>> uh the chart that Lisa got me.
>> Okay.
>> But yeah, we should definitely consider
that
>> as well as the roof that they talked
about, too.
>> They they they've been working on trying
to fix up that old build, that building
from the 1800s, right, with the they
they have a lot to do there. They I
think they've made some progress, but
yeah, I think that's right, Bill. Uh,
and I and I I'll get to this this, but
CIP last week and we have a fire
department request that we we'll talk
about when we get to capital uh for a
compressor.
>> All right, we should move.
>> Yeah, let's let's try to keep moving.
Um, I don't see a lot here to really
discuss,
honestly. Anybody have any more or let's
move on. The old town hall is zeroed
out. Well, not zeroed out, but it's
I mean, are we almost done with this
thing? This is This is No, this isn't
the one I'm thinking of. All right.
Sorry. This is the um
the the the one that's a museum now.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, that's fine. I I don't have any
issues here. It's all zeroed out. This
is the one I'm thinking of probably. Um,
how close are we to being completely
done with the old firehouse?
>> We're still talking about how we are
going to arrange
the space on the top so that different
committees and commissions can put their
stuff in the top. So, we we changed the
trust system up there
and we now we got to get back to uh the
cost and talk to the builder.
>> Um so,
>> and when you ask how close are you are
you asking how close we are to starting
the project and actually increasing our
costs related to the old firehouse?
>> That's a better way to put it.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I know that's a fair question.
>> So, guess what? for next year. We're not
going to increase the cost for the old
firehouse.
>> Perfect.
>> Right.
>> We could change it to something else,
Jeff.
>> That's fine. We'll
>> No, no, no, no. It's going to be It's
going to be the new old firehouse. But I
I mean, I wouldn't change that long.
>> That's the That's the That's the storage
facility eventually.
>> Transportation garage.
>> Transportation garage and storage.
>> That's what it's called. It should be
called the old firehouse, Scott.
So anyways, for moving on,
>> moving on.
>> It's it's just electricity and it needs
to be electrified this year.
>> It is. It is what it is. I think I think
there's an alarm system or something
else there. It's fine.
>> Um
Okay,
town attorney, we've got a $4,000
increase projected here for a retainer.
Um is this Dennis's fees going up or
anticipation of additional hours?
worked
>> the project over on um well this is for
for increasing the fees for the town
attorney. That's absolutely. So right
now what we have is we have um the
project on Lake Road on the Culvert has
eight different easements that need to
be drafted and put together for all of
um the residents to sit there and get
that project going. So um
That's a
>> That's nothing compared to what we have
to do.
>> Yep. So
>> that's fine. That's exactly
>> Is that going to be enough, Jeff?
>> Say that one again.
>> Is that going to be enough that the
>> I mean, this is an addition he's never
done. He's
>> Listen, I I asked I asked for more and
the board of selectman said no. So
that's what it is. That's fine.
>> I want to comment on why I said no.
because those easements and those fees
should be coming out of the project cost
of the project,
not out of the town's budget. Any any
capital bridge or covert project, that
should be a line item on that expense.
>> Uh question, which uh could you remind
me again which project this is? And
>> this is Solo Road. Solo Road.
>> Is this a one of the This is a Culvert.
Is this one of the ones where we pay
half the cost where we pay 80%? Okay.
>> 50%.
>> Expected cost is to be somewhere under a
little bit under $2 million.
>> So, um, Jeff Murray, your take is
basically that additional work, legal
work, whatever associated with that
project should be baked into the capital
budget for that project.
>> Correct. Because that is the actual cost
of the project,
>> right? Because when you start bur when
you start burying things under other
line items, you're never going to know
the actual cost.
>> And and we can do that, but we still owe
50% of it. So there's still going to be
an increase in the total cost.
>> I this isn't a question about I don't
think this is a question about what we
need to spend. I think it's a question
about where it should go. I think that's
Jeff's point.
>> Who did the easement uh documents for
the two bridges?
Uh the engineering firm dealt it.
>> The engineering firm did it, right?
>> But because of the way that this grant
is structured, they're push they're
trying to push it back on us.
>> That's right. So So it's a timetable
thing now.
>> I agree with Jeff.
>> Yeah, I
>> I'm going to push all of the expenses to
the grant to try to get as much of the
actual billing paid out of the other
side of this or the state side of this.
But um yeah, I mean with all the legal
issues related to what's going on in
this town and for all of the other
issues, I don't think the $4,000
increase for attorney O'Brien is
unwarranted.
That's fine. I just asked the question.
Um,
so if other members of the board of
finance have any questions in this area,
I mean, I don't see a lot here to
discuss other than this.
>> The auditor is going up $1,000.
>> Uh, here.
>> Yep.
>> So, it'll be 42.
>> That's what he asked. He sent I asked
for an estimate and he told me 42.
>> Okay. I don't. It's up to you guys, but
that's what he gave me for an estimate.
>> Oh, right. We should probably
We should probably uh All right. We need
to actually vote on that. All right. Um
but that's the I mean, look,
we don't we don't have a whole bevy of
auditors
knocking on our doors to do our audit.
So, my take is that uh for $1,000 extra
we keep our order. That makes a lot of
sense to me. Does anybody have any
problems with that? Otherwise, I think
what we should do I'll go ahead and move
>> that we increase Oh, go ahead, Liz.
>> No, I was going to say I don't think I
think we already approved this auditing
firm for the year, right? So, I think we
already approved that in December or
something. So, it's not like we can I
mean, can we change our mind what
auditing firm that we want after we've
already agreed to it?
>> Yeah. And again, we just don't have a a
lot of people who want to do our audits.
So, my take would be uh I'll move that
we increase 105320
annual audit from 41,000 to 42,000.
I'll second.
>> Bill seconds. Very good.
>> Uh, any further discussion on this one?
>> Great. Liz.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. Louise.
>> Kim.
>> Yes.
>> Bill.
>> Nick.
>> Yes.
>> Heather.
>> Me? Yes. That's seven. Uh, agreed. Very
good. We're done there. Uh, it is what
it is, guys. I mean,
>> yeah, I've been through this audit
stuff. I've been through this a lot
stuff too many times. Like,
>> you got to you got to All right, moving
on. So, we have the town. We We've
talked about the town attorney. It's not
a ton of money.
>> Listen, whether it's here or it's in the
other budget, it's still an increase. I
I I assume we leave it.
>> I'm okay with leaving it for now. Uh we
could always have one more bite at the
apple if we want. Okay. So,
this is all neither flat or negative. I
don't know there's much to discuss here.
All right. Public works. Let's talk
about public works. We've got here
very little change. We've got some 3%
raises, which I mean to me are fine
personally. You guys can decide what you
want to do there. Additional tires for
loader and truck one vehicle
maintenance. They need a little bit more
money for
Okay.
>> You explained that that was basically
have a tire on hand rather than a truck
being broken down roadside and having to
call in
>> and they have to bring them in which
actually might cost us more money.
Right.
>> That's right.
>> Um and then supplies uniforms I guess.
Um, I mean this is pretty minimal. Does
anybody have thoughts issues in this
section? I I honestly think it's okay.
>> They're under It's a union contract, so
we really can't do anything.
>> Yeah, these are You can't touch these
right here.
>> That's where the money is.
>> That That's where all the money is right
there.
>> Yeah. It's where all the money is
really.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Snow removal. We know.
>> Can you Can you go back up? Can you go
back up for one second? One second.
>> Sure. What do you want to look at, Jeff?
Is that overtime number right for what's
been expended, Lisa?
That just doesn't seem right to me. I
already said yesterday.
>> That's through January 31st.
>> Let me look.
>> I'm sure we've blown that in February.
We have
>> way past that.
I was going to mention that.
>> Hold on.
>> Isn't Isn't there a snow a snow
overtime?
>> I think they can be.
>> Yeah, it's snow. Yeah,
>> there's a snow overtime. Yeah, I think
there's a separate line for
>> snow. What's PW
>> No, PW
>> public works. Oh, overtime salary.
>> Keep going down. Snow, I think.
>> Yeah, it's just snow. But you're over
$23,000.
>> Over on the over on the snow or over on
regular overtime?
>> Snow. You're not over on regular
overtime. Regular overtime. You have
$10,000 left.
>> Okay. All right. Thank you.
Right. There's a snow removal 4307.
>> I'm sorry.
>> I was gone for about 30 seconds there.
Feeding a kid. What? Um, sorry. What was
the overtime discussion?
>> Well, I would like to look at uh public
works overtime salary. I understand
there's a 3% increase, but there's also
you're going from 3,00 337 3,000 to
13,000 13,000. That seems like a big
jump. Why is there such a big increase
>> in overtime on public work salary
overtime?
>> That is a
>> I understand there's a 3% increase for
salaries, but what it seems like a lot
of hours.
>> It It's interesting. The big jump was
last year,
>> right?
>> I know we must have approved that, but I
can't remember the justification.
>> Were we down a man last year, Jeff?
Weren't we down a man or two last year
for a while?
Jeff uh McGuire. I
>> I don't I that I can't tell you as far
as the timeline of the people. I mean,
we we hired the new individual, but that
was during the course of this fiscal
year. Um
>> yeah, I just know we were short some
people for a while. I was just wondering
if there wasn't an increase
>> um
>> in overtime because of that. We were
short. Do you have do you have do you
have last year's um Rob?
>> That's what I'm looking at right now.
>> Like what did Eric tell you he was
thinking that that was going to to
increase by and why? Because obviously
you went to the budget.
>> You jumped $10,000 somehow. Yeah. Um
Jeff, I mean I'd have to I'd have to go
into my emails and look.
>> I can do that.
>> We we could we should circle back to
this, but I think Bill is right. We
should look at that line, Adam.
>> All right. All right, I'm going to make
a note
to do just that.
>> All right. Uh, public works OT salary.
>> I mean, and not you're not looking at it
because the variance is is excessive.
You're looking at it because what is the
total budgeted amount?
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> No, that's exactly right. This isn't the
issue. The issue is No, this says the
union contract. So,
>> well, it's that that just means that by
3% because it takes the budgeted amount
by 3% because increase.
>> No, I get that. So, we can still modify
this,
>> right?
>> If we looked at it and said we need
this,
>> it still might have
>> this applied to it,
>> right?
>> All right. So, we'll have to come back
to that. Who
>> I I will I will dig through, guys. I
will I I will try to take time tomorrow
before our meeting to scroll through and
try to find anything I can find on that
from
>> a lot of hours. A lot of hours.
>> Yeah. And it's interesting
>> because we had
we had some easyish
years as opposed to this year. Um okay,
I I'll look into that. I'll see what I
can find. Do you want me to try and call
him tomorrow? Call Eric Anderson.
Sanderson.
>> Hey, if you've got time, I mean, my my
day tomorrow's a little crazy, so by all
means,
>> I'll call Eric Sanderson and see if he
>> is that his name.
>> And I will go back through
>> I will go back through my emails,
you know, and see if I can find anything
on that from the,
you know, the last budget cycle where we
to we must have. Again, I guarantee at
some point whether it's documented well
or not, somebody explained that jump to
us. Sorry, this jump to this.
>> Well, I'm looking at 2324 and the budget
not spent, but the budget was 125
and 2324.
>> Wait, what?
>> It was Oh, we have the actual here, but
not the budget. Interesting.
>> Correct. the actual that is correct for
the actual but the budget was 125 in
2324 I'm looking at it in Quickbooks
>> I mean I I can go back and look
>> further
>> 2425 we spent 37 and the next
>> in the fridge
>> why don't we just make a motion to knock
that down to five grand
>> I mean
>> go ahead and make it
>> what what do what do people think of
what is uh what do you guys think about
that
>> I mean we haven't seen something
>> it was 9,000 in the year before that.
>> Oh,
>> you want to do 10?
>> Was 10 crazy?
>> I'd like to go to eight, five or eight?
I don't know.
>> Because we had nine one year, you said,
right, Lisa?
>> Nine was in 22 23.
>> Can I Let me clarify. I'm sorry. When we
say nine, are we talking budget or
expendited?
>> Budget.
>> Oh. Oh,
>> budget.
>> Budget. That's not what was expended.
Budget.
>> Oh,
>> yeah. Then I make a motion to Liz
motion.
>> I make a I make a motion to knock this
down to five grand.
>> I'll second it.
>> I think the biggest the biggest overtime
is going to be in the snow removal. I
think
>> exactly.
>> And if we have overtime because we're
down a man, then
>> we're fully staffed again. Right.
>> Yeah. Right. Because somebody's gone
then. Right.
>> Right. So,
>> okay. I seconded it.
>> So, we have I'm sorry, Liz made the
motion. Bill, did you second?
>> Yes,
>> Bill. Yes. Thanks. Sorry, my um audio is
a little weird right now. Does anyone
have any further discussion or comment
on this before we move to a vote?
Okay. Uh let's start with Louise.
>> Yes.
>> Louise is a yes. Okay. Heather,
>> yes.
>> Heather's a yes. Nick,
>> Okay, I'm a yes. Bill,
>> yes.
>> Liz,
>> Kim,
>> yes.
>> All right. 70. We reduce this
to 5,000.
Me, it doesn't work that way. Okay,
honey. Sorry. Uh, excuse me.
I'm getting commentary from my
12-year-old. All right, so let's see.
Um,
does anybody else see anything in here
that we want to zero in on
or should we move on to snow removal?
>> Move on.
>> I think move on too.
Okay. Um,
we see a big increase here by
percentage, but it's a tiny amount of
money and it's ice melt, which I think
we've had problems with.
>> Um,
>> the building.
>> Yeah,
excuse me.
These are also these are all like even
the numbers that are percentage- wise
big are tiny amounts of money.
This one is snow plow plow blade
increased cost. I mean that kind of is
what it is.
>> Can we just go back to um the second
line right there it says just stop
moving that thing for a minute.
>> Ice maintenance building and then over
at the end it says price increase for
ice melt. Is it the building or is it
for the ice melt? Seems kind of a weird
>> ice maintenance at the DPW building.
Excuse me. Yeah, I think that's it.
>> The same thing. Megan, give me that.
Kill it.
>> Sorry.
Actually, it's not a lot of money. I was
just
>> uh Yeah. I mean, I think that's
>> Can you explain the uh the plow blade
already to us? The two different types
of blades and why they do the different
types of blades. So, I don't have a
problem with that.
Uh,
the rest of it's pretty minimal.
I
>> mean,
>> um,
>> are we are we good here? Could we keep
moving? Um,
>> did you have a comment? Um, Scott,
somebody
>> No, no, no. I'm good.
>> Okay.
>> Just saying it was a lot of money for
salt.
>> Yeah, I know that salt uh was a problem
this year, too, right? We had trouble
getting deliveries
>> and I think he pre-ordered a big chunk
of salt. He said for next year so that
we had it to finish out this year as
well as next year. He said something
about that. It was so hard to get.
>> Correct. We're going to hold that off
until July 1st though, Bill, because
we're going to be over budget just
basically on what he's got to fill the
shed right now.
>> Okay. So, even though it says we've only
spent $17,000 there,
>> I mean, it's back up.
>> Okay.
>> A little higher, but you know, we've
spent the majority of that budget plus.
>> Gotcha. Good.
>> Yeah. I have 65,000 so far, and that
doesn't mean that all those bills are in
there yet.
>> Wow.
>> Yep.
>> Yeah. We got lucky for a couple years.
Now, we're not so lucky.
>> Oh, wait a minute. Wait a minute. I want
to make sure I'm in the right year. Hold
on.
No, the bills aren't in here yet because
it's only at 21,000. So, the bills
aren't in here yet because I I do know
he said he put place two more orders and
then we have three invoices that aren't
um sent yet, too.
>> Right.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
Moving on.
>> Yeah. So under the custodian here we see
a small dollar amount increase a fairly
significant percentage increase. I know
this was done at a Borman meeting. I
haven't a chance to I just didn't have
time to watch that meeting. Um
was the thinking behind the 8.7%
increase?
Uh they do a tremendous job with our
facilities. They do all of our
facilities. They do the library. They do
the the the
community center. They do the town hall.
And
they deserve the increase.
>> Immaculate.
>> Sorry, what was that?
>> Scott said the buildings are immaculate.
>> They are immaculate. They're
>> Sorry, I I had a choppy choppy audio. I
didn't hear it. Thank you.
I think Eric always mentioned that as
well. I don't have a problem with this
increase at all.
>> Carol, did you have a comment?
>> Who? Me?
>> They do maintenance, too. They are
always painting
inside, outside. They're washing the
windows inside and outside. He cleans
out the gutters. So, it's not just
cleaning the inside of the building.
He's They are doing everything. They
have done a beautiful job with bringing
that building back up.
>> It's a good deal.
>> It's a really good deal.
>> It's a husband wife team, right? The two
of them do it together.
>> Y
>> I'm surprised for more.
>> I think we're lucky.
>> All right.
>> Yes.
>> I I have no issue with it. I just see
8.7% and asked the question.
>> Fair enough.
>> Move. Uh, I'm happy to move on unless
anybody else wants to challenge that or
make a motion. Um, okay. That's fine. I
I'm I'm willing to pay for talent and
hard work and all of that. That's that's
sort of my MO. So, that's fine. It's
just, you know, as percentage basis. It
was one of those things on my radar.
>> Transfer Station looks bas is is flat. I
don't know there's anything to talk
about there, guys. Uh, is this all
right? is is my basic question. Uh this
is great. I like that. But uh are are we
are we confident in these numbers?
Reasonably confident in these numbers.
>> We're as we're as confident as we can
be.
>> Okay.
Happy happy joy joy. Recycling. Same
deal.
Ah the resident trooper. So this is
always a movie target. This is always
you don't know what you're going to get.
Bit of a box of chocolates situation. Do
we we don't usually find this out until
after we pass budget, right?
>> It comes later in the year. And
>> no, it came on time. This the last two
years they've given it to us on time. I
think that
>> Oh, wow.
>> I think that's a figure.
>> This is a real number.
>> I believe so. It's been so long since I
put it in there. I mean, I can't tell
you how many years it was always. We
were just throwing a dart.
>> It was always Yes, it was always late. I
agree. But, um, I'm pretty sure because
I sent that to everybody.
>> If that is the number that fantastic and
I apologize if I missed an email about
it. That's great. If that's a real
number, huzzah. That is what it is. I
don't love the percentage.
>> It was in um one of the packets I sent
of all the documents.
>> Oh, okay. I may have missed I may have
missed.
>> Pretty sure it was in there.
>> Okay.
I mean, look, this is what it is. This
we have no control over this, guys. Um,
it's take it or leave it.
>> Yep.
>> So, I I there's no real discussion to be
had there. There's another productive
discussion to be had there. Um,
>> yeah, it's a fact.
>> Great.
>> Yeah,
>> thanks, Lisa. I really appreciate that.
Um,
so we have
very little here for the fire
department. You know, a small 1.5
request.
All of this is zeros.
Although, I think there's one other
place in our budget where we we pay for
a
fire marshal that we're sort of
borrowing from another town, but we'll
get to that another bit. This is all
zeroed out.
Civil preparedness. Uh, I don't know
what this There's a lot of Oops. Sorry,
guys. Menu. There's a lot of memo here.
But at the end of the day,
it's flat.
This here is this I know. I This is a
real number now, right?
>> Yes. We updated it. Yes.
>> Okay. Because I remember the original
thing was they were dropping us, but
then it was, "Okay, we'll keep you, but
we're going to crank your costs up." And
this is the answer. Yeah.
>> And Yep. And that's an actual document
that that I sent out too. Yep.
>> Yep.
>> And I don't think we have any choice
there.
>> We have no choice.
>> We have no choice. We don't have a
facil. We We'd have to have our own
facility otherwise, right?
>> And it would cost, you know, you got to
air condition it and the cost of
building that facility would be
staggering.
>> We we don't have a facility right now
that would be compliant. We would have
to create it. Um,
>> so heck lot
more than that.
>> Yeah, a heck of a lot more than this.
We'd have to talk about it going
forward, but I don't see personally a
solution to this other than to eat it.
Um, okay.
Okay. Punk welfare.
So, this we talked about a little bit,
right? This is the municipal agent,
right?
We talked about training.
I think this is justified based on some
new folks we have coming in that need
training
>> as well as the kitchen opening up and
that has
>> in the kitchen. Yeah. Um
this is literally buying cookware
for the again for the kitchen. Senior
lunch. We talked about this a little bit
and I I had a conversation with Kate
about senior lunch, how it's paid for,
how it works. Um
my understanding is the seniors get
charged
like five bucks or something like that
per lunch.
>> Five bucks.
>> So yeah, five bucks.
And there's a certain number of
lunches they do a year. They're catered,
etc.
So
Tess told me
Yeah, I had a lot of really fuzzy math
going on during my conversation with her
because she was basically saying, "Look,
until I have a full year of data, I
can't give you a clear answer, but at
once one time the number was increased
because at one point there was a desire
to do free lunch for the seniors. That
wasn't implemented.
Um
>> that that was to the seniors that could
not afford it, we were going to pay for
their lunches. That's where you probably
heard that, Rob.
>> No, that's what Tessa was trying to
explain to me. Okay. So, to the extent
that I misunderstood that. Thank you. Um
>> so it was not implemented.
>> It's a it's an increase. I mean, this
year, this is the last budget. We're not
increasing. Sorry. We're we're flat from
last budget. I don't know if this number
is right.
It's not a lot of money. My g my gut is
Let's let this play out,
but does anybody else have a thought?
>> How much do we actually spend?
>> Well, Lisa has us at 4,500. I don't know
if that's
>> that gets us to the end of January.
>> Yeah, let me go back in and look.
>> Well, and we have to the end of the
year. So, how many more lunches are they
going to have this year?
the test and she said that that all that
money is going to be gone.
>> Yeah, that takes all
>> by the end of the year it's going to be
gone.
>> Okay. So, what I'm saying is it was
budgeted at 5,000 and they're going to
spend 5,000.
>> No, I think No, the budget
>> the budget was 125
>> 12,05.
>> Oh,
>> yeah. The 5,000 was two years ago.
>> They spent Oh, I got you. Yeah.
>> 5,700751
so far.
>> They're at 5,000. Okay.
>> So whether we quite get to here or not,
we are at half, not quite half of it.
>> Um
yeah.
>> Can I say something?
>> Yes.
>> Go ahead, please. Le
>> Yeah. Um I go there all the time for the
lunches. uh once I believe it's once a
month it gets catered and it's done by
the um the school uh forgot the name
>> technical school
>> the technical school
>> y
>> but the other ones are done by the
volunteers in there they buy the
chickens and cut them all up and all
that and it's a lot of work so they are
trying to save money by doing it
themselves for most of the time
>> so I feel that I mean the 12,000 I think
is
is good and I wouldn't I wouldn't reduce
that at all. If anything maybe up it a
little bit.
>> Yeah. Does it does it need more?
>> I guess my take would be based on past
experience guys and this is just my take
subjective as it is. You guys have your
own opinions but I think we maybe let it
ride. See how it plays out this year.
give Tess some more time to get in her
position and uh get her arms around
everything and we can revisit it next
budget year. If if they're wild, if
somehow it comes to the point where we
just we need a lot more money for this
or something, we can talk about it.
There are things we can possibly do. Um
but this is just looking at this
versus this.
My take would be leave it. That's my
call. That's my take.
I think that's fair.
>> I think that's good.
>> I think I think that's fair, too. I'm I
mean, if you look at I'm also looking at
the next line, the senior programs.
>> Do we have any Yeah. Do we have any more
>> explanation like of what kind of
programs?
>> Let me look at my notes.
>> All the programs bring this down as she
talked to me. Emma, I know they're doing
a lot. She's really trying to build that
out.
>> She's right. That's exactly what it is,
Rob. Yep.
>> Yeah. I think I sent out something that
was several pages that she listed the
entire year and I sent it out to you
guys.
>> Pretty sure.
>> Yeah. I mean, this is this this
represents her trying to scale up
>> and honestly do her job, right? um
programs and and and whatnot in there
and get people
>> doing I don't know if it's
>> yoga or this or that or whatever. It's
not it's something I paid too much
attention to, but I my understanding is
she's her job is basically like, hey, we
have this new building. We let's use it.
So, I think that's what this boils down
to, but I I'm sorry I can't give you
chapter and verse. I did talk to Tess,
but I don't have my notes are not as
great as I'd like them to be. I'm sorry.
I just heard somebody put their hand up,
but I don't know who that was.
Tess. Oh, Tess, you're here.
>> Okay, by all means.
>> Um, yeah, I'm I'm h I'm happy to share
um about the future of the community and
senior center. Um uh yes. So what I did
is I broke down July through June um
what things that we would keep going um
that have that have done well and what
things um we might want to implement.
Especially with the stove coming in, we
would want to do some more uh activities
that have to do with the stove. Um
having just a hypothetical uh once maybe
twice a month something in there. um
doing some more trips because um if you
look there hasn't been a whole lot of
trips being spent, but that comes a lot
during the summer um and the one
Christmas party um each year. Um so so a
lot of these things
with programs, it's not just um the
program itself. It's like art. We have
to pay for the art teacher. If we can
find somebody that would do it for free,
we would love that. Um, but we do have a
great art teacher. Um, and and that
definitely adds up.
>> Um, I did just book two classes for uh
>> um a photography class for May and June.
So, that's going to get eaten up um as
well. So, so what we're trying to do is
find an art teacher, find these
different people that are expertise in
their field, and then try to have the
program pay for itself. So if that means
having the community pay a portion of it
and then we would pay a portion and then
it would it would it would balance
itself out but we definitely need money
upfront to do that. So um I will be
happy with whatever you you give and we
will try to make it work as best as
possible for the next coming year.
>> And you also speak that we we had quite
a conversation Tess about the senior
lunch. Do we have that right or is that
12,500 a good number? Like can you just
speak to that number for a minute?
>> Um I wasn't going to change that for
this year. Um we'll definitely use it.
Um we can add more more things to the
lunchons. Um I would like to see a
little bit more going on. Uh if we can
add one more lunch during the course of
the week. I think um the senior
population is um will will come. They
will definitely come if we feed them.
And I think that that definitely helps
um not only their mental and social, but
it's it's
I think that yes, we'll use it, but I
think right now um we can we can keep it
where it's at. And and will the kitchen
help us offset any of these cost as far
as the lunchons or
when the kitchen's open? Is that
something that we could bring that
inhouse or?
>> Um what we do now is we have a lunch
once a week. It would probably increase
that. Well, by the monies that we do
receive, um we do charge $5, but
definitely those that do not are not
able to um pay for that, they do not.
Our drivers do not pay. That's a comp
meal for our drivers who drive uh the
senior van. Um volunteers will eat for
free and um people that that cannot pay
the $5. We don't ask questions. Um if
they come in, they register. Uh if they
pay, great. If they don't, that's okay,
too. We don't ask questions. Um and
there are some that that definitely take
us up on that um that don't pay each
week. So, um the one the funds that do
come in will will go back into that
program uh into that line uh that we can
use somewhere else. So, like um we have
to pay for Cheni Tech, the culinary
school that would come out of the monies
that we received that we can pay that
back through. I I don't know if that's
making any sense to you. Um I got you.
um the that money that we receive for
the $5 that would go back into uh what
we have in reserve that we can pay that.
>> Okay. Thank thank you.
>> Y I'd like to add to um what Tess said.
Um again the the food basically except
for the culinary school is being done by
the volunteers for most of most of the
time and without those volunteers
you would need to probably hire someone
to do the cooking. So I think we're
offsetting a lot of that by all the
volunteers that are helping. I just want
to make sure that people are aware of
that.
>> Yep. I'm here if you have any other
questions.
>> Thank you.
>> Sorry, I was muted. Here I am talking to
myself. Um, okay. So guys,
unless there's a motion here, I'd like
to move on. I I I'm okay with these
numbers and letting tests settle in and
and come back to us next year and tell
us what what's up. I I think these
numbers are relatively reasonable to see
and see what she can build out and see
what she can get going. And I think it
would be great if there was a lot more
activity in that building.
>> Yep.
>> Okay.
So, senior transport, we sort of talked
about this a little bit already.
This here we talked about it's just you
know and again this is the 3% raise
built in. Everything else is zeroed out.
I don't know there's anything to talk
about there. This here oh this is my
question. Yeah
>> I just going back to that and not that
I'm looking to increase anything this
year but with the fuel prices right now.
I wonder if that number is going to be a
good number on the fuel.
>> Uh
>> I just bought gas today. It was a dollar
more this week than it was a week ago.
So
>> that was ran. Um I guess what the
question becomes
is the D salary line item. This is a
salary line item. I don't know if this
is in this incorporates mileage
reimbursement.
>> I'm talking No, I'm talking about the
fuel.
>> Oh, sorry.
>> Down here. Yeah.
So, how do we handle fuel reimbursement?
Is it a at work? It's, you know, x cents
per mile. Well, it's based off a federal
rate and
>> it's not it's not a reimbursement number
like is what it is.
>> Gas. That's gas for the vehicles,
>> right?
>> That's gas.
>> That's just straight up
>> that's just straight up gas for the
vehicles.
>> Yep.
>> Well, honestly,
since you've raised it, there are
multiple parts of this budget that we've
already kind of gone through that we
could go back up, scroll back up and
question.
Uh, well, no, not really because all
right, look, let me re let me rephrase
that whole statement. I know we have
lockins for diesel and heating oil for
the school in the town hall, right?
>> Mhm.
>> Is this here incorporated into those
lockins or not?
>> Where did what pump do they get their
gas from?
>> Where do they get their gas, Jeff? Do
you know? Does that come out of our tank
or
>> No, it does not.
>> Yeah,
>> but Tess will answer it for you. ass.
No,
>> I had myself muted. Yeah, I um I can
tell you that most of the time they do
fill it up right in Andover and it's
it's convenient and it's usually right
on the ride for right on the road for a
medical or an event that they take. So,
they fill it up at a gas station.
>> They fill it up at a gas station. They
don't fill it up out of our tanks is the
question.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah. So, if this is Okay, so here's our
question. Yeah. So,
if you're dealing with four bucks a
gallon instead of three bucks a gallon,
Bill, you you make a good point. Uh,
this number may not be sufficient.
>> Hopefully, the war comes to an end real
soon and go back down. I just I don't
know if we should up that a little bit
or
>> I just
>> That's uh I will say that we did apply
for a grant. We did receive $10,000
um uh 9,000 of that the first year will
will be going to the software system. Um
and uh consecutive years I believe that
we can apply for this uh for the next
four years and so that can go directly
to the transportation.
>> Great.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> So, you got about a thousand bucks to
play.
>> Uh we uh for this year we probably have
around $1,000.
um depends on um if we're getting help
with that. Even though we have the full
grant, um we can we're hoping that we
have help with that from um the wreck
department and then we we would have um
we would have all that at play next
year.
>> So, we're good where we are then
probably for now.
>> I I
would say so. I would Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> I mean,
>> good. There's a lot of we could all we
could all game this out and there's a
lot of speculation, you know, as how
long this goes on and what the numbers
end up being. $1,000 a play is pretty
good. I mean, if we just do this,
right?
So, it's a 16%
Yeah, you think about it. It's a 16%
variance.
So
if if gas prices go up and stay up, then
this may be a problem. But there we do
have the buffer. So I guess I'm with
you, Bill. I guess I'm saying, "Yeah,
let's let it ride."
>> Yep.
>> It's not I'm not 100% confident in it,
but I'm glad we're locked in everywhere
else. Let's put it that way.
>> Okay.
>> This year, I think more or less is what
it is. Eastern Highlands. Um, remind me
guys, isn't this work? So, this is
scheduled a 3% increase.
Eastern Highlands, don't we pay into a
like is this an employee of ours or are
we just paying a um
uh what's it? I want
>> the health district,
>> right? It's the health district. I know.
I understand what it is. What I'm saying
is isn't so
Why is it 3% which looks like a salary
increase? We don't.
>> So, this isn't a salary, right? Isn't
this just our contribution?
>> This is what they told us they and I
gave to you guys. This is what it is for
the year. This is what they sent us.
>> Oh, it happens to be 3%.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Sorry. Cuz I looked at it and I
thought, "Oh, that's exactly the same as
all our sal thing that Bill was
thinking." Okay. Thank you.
>> Well, because it says officer, too. So,
at one point, maybe you had a health
officer. I don't.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Okay.
>> Well, if that is if that is the
increase, it is the increase. This is
one of these things where we're in a
consortium, right,
>> of shared services.
>> Kind of is what it is. You're sharing,
we're saving money or we we're required
to be in this um I think legally.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. Um,
HM we talked about
uh does anybody have any further thought
I mean I person just speak personally
I've always thought very highly of AHM I
think they do what they need to do. I'm
okay with this but it's a 5% increase.
So does anybody have any thoughts? I
mean I think we are kind of again we're
in a we're in a group of towns. We have
kind of a levy
>> and it is what it is or you withdraw. I
guess
>> you either fund this or you don't.
>> Can I add something to that? Um meeting
Tresa actually um requested another
meeting and Ann and I are both invited
to that on Friday. So we'll see if
there's any other changes to that.
>> Okay.
>> So I would probably leave it the way it
is at this point and we can report back.
>> Thank you.
>> Awesome. Thank you. Thanks.
>> Yeah,
>> Louise, about Oh, about that, Louise.
>> Yeah.
>> Can and I think I remember us talking
about this. Can we
>> get some sort of report of And maybe you
already sent that a report of
>> Andover's usage. Is that what that
report was that you sent us?
>> I did request that. Um, that was just
Andover's usage, but you had also
requested a comparison between the towns
and I did ask trust of that and she
hasn't provided that yet, but I'll check
back with you tomorrow.
>> Look for my
>> yet.
>> If Andover doesn't use it, maybe it's
something we should talk about. I mean,
>> well, I mean, I think we are I think we
are using them pretty consistently is my
recollection. my recollection list. Uh
but it's something to
>> continually ask
>> for sure,
>> you know, to see what
>> it's just like looking at enrollment at
say RAM versus a AES or whatever, you
know. Uh it it makes sense to
continually ask the question, but I know
my family made use of HM. I know there
was a big spike in their usage during
the pandemic. There there's a lot that
they've done. So that's that's my gut
take. But yeah, Louise, please do report
back. Thank you for doing that. Thank
you for taking that on.
>> No problem.
>> Okay.
Uh where are we? Library. Um
well,
it's uh pretty small.
We I believe already had a budget
presented to us but
or at least emailed around.
>> Well, there's that was a separate
budget. This is more of um
payroll.
>> This is just their their ops
>> and then their operation. Oh, yeah. And
then there's ops below that. That's
right.
>> Yeah, it's in there. It's 2%.
I personally have no issue with 2%.
These numbers here, these pink numbers,
I believe again if they're pink, if
Lisa's put them in pink, that means
Boris selectman voted on it. Is that
correct, Lisa?
>> That was a change discuss. Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> What's child child Prague employee
child program?
>> Let me see. Sorry, let me see if I can.
>> They get more per hour than basically a
lot of the the librarians get um minimum
wage or a little above. And if they're a
program, they handle the programs, they
get a little bit more in wages.
>> Okay.
>> Um
>> I I'll speak for for Kathy on that. I
guess that librarian that we have,
>> I think we've had her for 20 or 30 years
or something. I don't know, some long
amount of time. She's paid basically a
salary of a brand new librarian fresh
out of college. and she's been with us
for a long long long time and really is
far far far underpaid. So
anyways, I know
>> that's
>> we're going to have to look at the
payroll on the library because
Connecticut's increasing the minimum
wage. So I'm not sure if that was taken
into account.
>> Yeah, I see that one point one.
>> Yeah, there is a minimum wage increase
>> increase. Yeah,
>> memory serves Connecticut a couple years
ago tied
our minimum wage actually tied it to
like an inflation increase.
>> Did we not?
>> The cost
>> I thought we had done that.
>> Yep. Cost index. It's gone up. It's gone
up 3.6%.
So, and I believe there's some
individuals that are paid at a minimum
rate, a minimum wage rate at the
library. So, I'm just saying that that
calculation the library does probably
needs to be revised to affect that.
>> There is a there is a note in here um
for the she's got it listed as clerks.
Minimum wage increasing to 1694 per hour
beginning 1126
calculating 38 hours a week times 52
weeks times 1694.
>> Okay, so she's done it.
>> That's good.
>> Well, that was for January. Now, I don't
know if it's going up again because they
keep increasing it, but that that's
including what went up in January 1.
>> No, that that's the effective rate for
January 1st, 2026.
>> Okay.
>> So, I guess the unless we hear further
from the library folks, I mean, this is
the number they've calculated.
>> Yep.
>> Right.
>> Um,
I'm okay with that. Uh, it is what it
is. I mean, again, we indexed our
minimum wage, so it's just kind of it's
it's it's bad.
Um, so I'm good with this unless anyone
else has a question, concern, or motion
to make, I would continue on.
Nope.
>> All right. Recommission.
Um
this is the only sorry this is the line
registration for whisk.
>> Oh yeah I vaguely remember this.
So we had um some additional there was a
hope for some a concert and and this and
that and you know for $1,400.
So they're trying to do a little bit
more.
>> Is Carol Canary Carol speak to this
section?
>> Yeah. Carol, are you uh
>> Okay. So, what that is is we were uh
agreed to pay half of the cost of the uh
system program that the community center
is getting the annual fee that to
maintain it or support it or whatever.
And we wanted to do one additional
concert.
>> Carol, can you can you come closer? I
can't lost you there at the end.
>> Sorry. I I don't know what that is, but
um Can you hear me better now?
>> Yes, thank you.
>> I'm holding a computer right up to my
face. So, um
>> better.
>> Okay. So, we agreed to split the annual
maintenance maintenance cost with the
community center for the program that
they're purchasing. And
that covers half of that and one
additional concert.
What is I'm sorry.
>> Is that what is that WSC?
Is that the program?
>> Yeah. What is that? Wix or
>> Yeah.
>> I have no idea what that is. I didn't
put that in. Um if if that is what Tess
is calling it. I my it was senior
center. Okay. Thank you, Tess. Because I
don't know what those
>> Speak up.
>> Yeah. I'm not sure what that is. So,
>> and it was carried over from previous
previous worksheet. So, I don't know
what it is either
>> because that was in the worksheet.
>> So, if I'm understanding, Carol, what I
heard you say was that um something
something and I didn't hear you clearly
something about partnering with the
community and senior center,
>> right? Remember we had talked about this
and you invited us to come to the uh
online training for that and we had
>> Oh, okay. Yeah. This was for um my
>> Yeah, it's um my active center and and
specifically would be for my senior
center. That's the software system and
um
>> Yeah. So, but you're not taking money
out of your budget. That was through a
grant that you had received was my
understanding that you were going to be
sharing part of that grant with us
>> for the initial purchase, but this is
for the annual maintenance.
So,
>> Okay. Yep. So,
>> right. So, is that correct? That was the
cost that we were originally g the recck
commission was given, I believe, when
Haley attended one of our meetings. So,
we just cut that in half. We said if
we're going to use it for basketball
registration and different things,
obviously we would be covering half of
the annual maintenance,
>> right? And I think that that may change
only due to that grant that we're going
to be getting um for the next couple
years. So, if we can put that that in
the annual the annual maintenance in
with the grant, we can do that. But, um,
uh,
I'll That's it.
>> So, is it $900? Is that going to be
every year?
>> Um, it's going to be about $1,500 every
year
>> split by both of you, by Wreck and the
center.
Um, we could put it under ours or if
they're willing to do that every year.
Um, it's coming out of the town budget
whether it comes out of programs for rec
center or all of it comes out of ours.
It's
>> okay. I'm just trying to understand what
this means.
>> Yeah.
>> A little fuzzy.
>> Little confusing.
>> Okay.
>> Did I make it clear or did I make it
worse?
>> You did help. You did. You definitely
did. Thank you, Tess. Yep.
Can I ask one more question? What is the
outside facility rental fee?
>> Probably a portaotty, I imagine.
>> Is that what that is?
>> It is. Yes, the portaotti at the um
historical museum and the one that is
down at the ball fields.
>> Okay.
>> Gotcha. Thank you.
>> All right. So, this one that was a
little complicated, but I think we got
there. Um,
do we want do we want excuse me, I
apologize if I'm hiccuping. Does anybody
uh have any further discussion on
programs under the recommission? Uh, you
know, whether we should try to split
this out or leave it as it is for now,
make any, you know, is there any further
discussion here or should we move on?
>> Move on. eyesight.
>> Okay. Anybody else? Liz, you good?
>> Anybody do we want to talk about the
community garden at all? Anybody?
>> Oh, right. I forgot about I'm sorry.
Yes. Uh because you had talked about
that earlier.
Community garden. We had talked about
seeds and stuff like that. I I remember
we had those folks in.
>> We did.
>> So, uh go ahead. Go ahead. take what
what what is your thought?
>> I'll pipe in.
>> Um,
>> go ahead, Louise.
>> Yeah.
>> You want to start?
>> Yeah. They did a presentation and um
they had noted that some a couple two
gardens were going to be for the seniors
and two I believe were going to be for
the uh school.
And when I asked about the seniors, it
was my understanding that someone was
going to they were going to actually
work the gardens on picket and pick uh
the produce and all that and then
provide it for the seniors. But after
that after that discussion that we had
that was not the case. They were they
told us that the seniors would need to
go out there and do all that work where
I mentioned I don't see any of these
seniors doing that.
And um I actually asked Tess about this
as well because they had told me that um
they had talked to Tess about it cuz I
was I was concerned. And Tess had
mentioned to me that um she did
volunteer for one garden for her for uh
the seniors at which time I told her
that's a lot of work for one person to
handle all that. So I don't know where
all that's going honestly. um in the
past couple years the Andover garden the
Andover elementary school gardens were
not taken care of and I don't know if
there's going to be any change in that
for this year as well.
So my my point is um
we should reduce that.
I don't know how by how much but I want
to hear what everyone else has to say.
Um, I have a copy of the the detailed
budget in front of me if um you would
like me to share it. Can is that
something I could do?
>> Sure.
>> So, so you could see what we're all
talking I mean, we're not talking a ton
of money here. For sure. We're not.
>> No.
>> Share at the bottom of the screen. Can
you
>> Oh. Oh, share.
>> Okay. Share.
>> Sorry. I'm gonna stop sharing.
>> Yeah, you have to stop.
>> I have to stop.
>> Yep. And I'm gonna allow Liz.
Sorry, guys. I was uh checking on top.
>> It's okay. Okay. So, share. So, share.
Okay. Here we are.
Um, can you see?
>> Yep.
>> How do we move this thing out of my way?
Um,
so I I went down there the other day,
too. I was down there with Marcy the
other day. Um, she was on her bike and I
was just driving by. So, we stopped and
just took a look and um Jeff Ballard
came by and he kind of gave us the whole
gave us the whole tour of the whole
irrigation system thing that I think
he'd gotten grants or something with.
It's pretty crazy. It's pretty
intricate. It's pretty cool. Um, but
then, you know, I had this this list in
my mind and I I I asked him about the
irrigation system that he had, like the
$1,800 irrigation
uh system on the budget. And I thought
to myself, my feeling is
this garden is used by a certain group
of people.
In my mind, my question is, why are the
taxpayers subsidizing
a garden that a group of people use?
That's just the way I think. And I was
thinking, you know, maybe we maybe we
say, you know, we'll give you whatever
$1,800. Explain this drip system to me
thing. And this drip system,
so it's set up like with two gardens. So
it's it's like one big rectangle broken
into two and then two two two over to
like I think 10 10 I think.
>> Yeah.
>> This irrigation this one piece is for
one garden and it's a test to see how it
works out. See if it works better than
what's happening now because they're
having like water problems with too much
water and mold and whatever. And so I
was like, "So you're saying this is just
for one? You're going to need nine more
of these?"
Uh I I guess I just didn't understand
how how much was involved in this
garden. And
the ask has gone up again. It just seems
to me if I was a person just like a
person myself and wanted to have a
garden, I would be and not have the room
in my own yard. I'd be thrilled to have
a place that's already prepped and ready
to go. I'd bring all my stuff. I'd bring
my seeds. I'd bring my stuff. I'd plant.
And I just I don't know. I just feel a
little odd
about
all these things that a small group of
people are using. That's all. Um that's
my spiel.
And you know, I know it's not a lot of
money, but I just wonder how other
people feel about it.
So, it says 37.85.
Doesn't the budget say much more?
The one that Rob was showing us
the request. Did I
>> uh One, one moment.
Where were we?
>> Maybe I just read it wrong.
>> No, no, hold on. Hold on. Community
garden.
>> Take your time.
>> 3785
is the request.
So, what did they spend $1,800 on last
year?
>> Yeah, that's kind of
>> If the budget's only $225 different.
>> Yeah.
>> What did he add? What was the 225?
>> It's interesting. It's interesting
because last year's budget is listed as
3560.
>> And Lisa's number for expenditures year
to date, well, we haven't hit spring
yet, so I don't know if that really
means anything, is 140 bucks. the
>> he's done some purchases since then.
Jeffrey Gallard has.
>> I bet. Okay.
>> I bet. Well, springtime, right?
>> $637.
>> You would not expect in the dead of
winter
to be spending a bunch of money. But
that said,
>> the actual expenditure for 2425 was a
little over $5,000.
>> Really?
>> Yes. That's what it's listed on this
chart. Assuming that's the correct
number.
>> 55. 5,124
2425 action.
>> Yes.
>> Can you can you guys switch stop sharing
Liz and let
>> Yep. Yep.
>> Sure thing.
Give me one moment, Jeff. Ah, my Ah,
sorry. My computer's fighting me. Give
me a moment.
All right.
Uh, where are we here? Um,
community garden. So, this is what I'm
talking about.
>> Oh, yeah. Okay.
>> Wow.
>> Okay.
It seemed it's bounced around quite a
bit, don't you think? Um, so they spent
a bunch of money
in 242. Shoot. Sorry. Let me fix that.
My bad.
They spent a bunch of money in 2425.
They haven't spent much this year yet,
but obviously we're coming into spring.
Our budget this year, however, you would
have expected
I don't know. I don't know if we would
have expected some expenditure
in the summer, you know, post July one.
>> I would think most expenditure comes in
June.
>> I would think I would think it would be
like May. Yeah, like April, May.
>> April, May. Um,
>> there is a big purchase back in 24 or
25, but I can't tell you because all it
says is credit card. People's choice
>> for $1,800.
>> I think that's part of the irrigation
system. Didn't they buy some big tanks
back there, Liz? Weren't you were back
there? They
>> There are big There are big tanks back
there. Um, but I know there was a lot of
uh piping and all kinds of stuff. Um, I
know that some of there's like two
really like big tanks almost as big as
this room. And I think he said he got
the got a grant for those, I think.
>> And there's another $1,275
charge, but again, there's no memo in it
um for last June. So, I would have to
look up the bill because there's no memo
in it. Okay.
>> It's made out to Jeff Ballard, but it
doesn't say what it's for. Yeah.
the community garden did get a a
did get an investment from the school
through a grant program supposedly to
sit there and do fencing and do some
other issues. So, there's been
additional money spent that's not
included in this tool.
>> Correct.
in the sense of a community garden. I
don't really feel that it's really
benefiting
a community. I think it's benefiting a
few people and there was no ill feelings
to Jeff because he's worked so hard on
that.
>> But a lot a lot very very very much. And
um I just don't I mean I I don't see it
being a a fee for the town
>> or some of it at least.
>> Okay.
Um
>> and his plan I will say his plan for
that garden for the senior garden for
whoever wants to tend to it. And I
honestly don't think it's fair to for
Tess to feel like she should have to do
it. Um is to take the produce from that
garden and put it in a refrigerator
that's going to be um put into the lower
level of the senior center and it'll be
open between certain hours on Saturdays
for people for the community to go in.
And
>> thanks. Can I can I can I ask you to try
one thing this year with this?
>> Um, sit there and take
>> the garden produce and try to work with
and then Jeff Ballard worked with Tess
to incorporate it into the senior
lunchons and to the seniors to allow the
seniors to take the produce.
>> That's what I that's what I was told by
Jeff it was going to happen. I didn't
hear anything about the community part
of it. Well, what he told me last this
past weekend when I
>> Okay, but what I what I'm really driving
at is the seniors that are going to the
lunchon on a Friday get to pick up
whatever vegetables they want. And if we
find that the vegetables aren't being
taken by the seniors and the members of
the community there, then next year you
decide what to do related to the
community garden. but give them a
purpose and say this is what we would
like you to accomplish
or we look at it differently next year
and pounds of produce was given to the
church last year
>> right that was his when he came and
presented to us he he mentioned that I
would love it if they were able to
incorporate nice fresh produce into
those senior lunches that would be
pretty cool
>> um
>> they he did say he did say is not doing
the church thing anymore because they
weren't getting the volunteers to come
and help do it.
>> Yes, I remember that discussion as well.
>> Yeah,
>> and I get it. It's a lot of work.
>> So, does anybody have a motion?
>> Yeah, we need to move on. So,
>> it's not a lot of money.
>> It's not I mean, we're talking about,
you know, a $225 increase from last
year. talking about 3785
total.
If there's a motion to reduce this line
item, let's do it and let's move on.
Going once.
>> I'd make the motion we bring it back to
3560.
>> That's exactly what I was going to say.
>> I'll second it.
>> Big minds.
>> Okay. Uh, sorry. Who seconded it?
>> Liz. Liz. Very good. So, bill motions.
Liz seconds. Any further discussion,
guys?
All right. I'll call for a vote. Kim,
>> yes.
>> Heather,
>> Nick,
>> yes.
>> Bill,
>> Liz,
>> yes.
>> Louise,
>> And myself, yes. So, we're going to
reduce this uh to last year's
3560.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh I can type 3560.
>> Actually, let me put my let me get my
notes right here from requested
785.
>> All right. So, this is
okay.
>> Thanks, guys.
We're good. Uh, we got a bunch of zeros
here. Select win. Uh, board clerk. This
is just 3% increase.
I mean, that's just,
>> yeah,
>> unless anybody wants to challenge it. I
mean, again, these are 3%.
>> Um, we had a question down here. Oh, we
talked about this already. We did this
in our other spreadsheet. I got to fix
this. This we zeroed out, right? Yeah.
>> Yep.
>> Yes.
Oh yeah,
excuse me.
Um%
3% let's see what is this
inland wetland clerk
12 me per year.
Um
h
you know it's a small amount of money.
It's 500 bucks. Um
h just looking at the expenditures.
>> Do they get
>> do they get paid per meeting? Is that
what that is?
>> Presumably.
Uh,
>> thank you so much for meeting
>> $84 a meeting usually. It looks like
>> Okay.
Well,
>> and they want to go up to 13.
>> They want to go
>> What is the math? I didn't do it. What's
the math?
>> 84* 12 is only like $1,000, right?
>> I think I think their concern was
they're going to have more for this
year, more meetings, but I don't know
why.
>> Well, it says 12 meetings per year.
>> 12, right? So $848.
>> It's 108. No.
>> Yeah.
Um
I mean okay.
>> One meeting was slightly higher by nine
bucks. One meeting. All the rest were
$84.
>> What's 84 time 12?
>> 108.
There you go.
>> Well, unless she has a long meeting, I
don't, you know, it depends on the
length of the meeting on how much time.
I don't I don't know. I don't know if
she gets it.
>> All right, let's make it $1,100. Let's
see. I'll make a motion. She say it's
$1,100
from 13.
>> Yeah, but you don't you don't know if uh
what the conversation was. This is like
somebody's this somebody's pay. Like
maybe they made an agreement with her to
make like $110 a meeting or something.
Okay.
>> Who do we know on inland wetlands uh
that can answer this question?
>> That's all I mean I
think
>> typically I mean it's such a small
budget that we don't I don't know that
we usually have them on but
>> Oh, it says on here potential 12
meetings per year plus sitewalk, special
meetings, public hearings. So maybe the
clerk goes on some of those.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Things.
>> Yeah. And if she gets if she gets paid
$100 a meeting, that's 1,200 right
there.
>> All right.
>> I think that's pretty typical. I think
it's pretty typical for the town, right?
Um Jeff Magguire,
>> I'm I'm good. Just demanding.
>> Okay.
>> I don't I don't have a problem with it.
I just, you know, see that question.
>> Yeah.
So, okay
guys, we've made it to capital, but it's
9:50. So, my gut take here, and members
of the board, you can agree or disagree,
but I think that's next meeting.
>> What do you think,
>> fresh?
>> Tomorrow night, we can talk about
capital. We can circle back about we can
talk about AA as if you want. um you
know and try to tighten this thing up
and prep for April 1st. So, but to me to
me this is its own thing.
We have lots of time tomorrow night that
we've set aside.
So, my take would be maybe stop here if
unless I have significant disagreement
from the board.
>> Nope. I think that's great.
>> Me too. Is there any more public speak
or are we good or
>> uh usually I think we added in we've
been trying to be do a better job and
add in public speak at the end as well.
Uh I don't have the agenda up because I
have a different PDF up. Sorry I for
some bizarre reason on this particular
laptop I can only have one PDF at a time
and I have Lisa's capital fund PDF up
here. So you tell me but I believe
there's a public speak at the end. Yes.
Let me just
I'm gonna stop sharing so I can see.
>> Did I send Can you remind me? Did I send
the board of selectman that PDF on the
capital or just the board of finding?
>> Oh, give me one moment.
I got to find it again. Give me one
moment.
>> All right. Cuz I do.
>> It was your budget docs updated on the
18th
and you sent it to
our board.
You CC Jeff Maguire.
>> Okay. So, I'll send it to
>> That's it.
>> Yeah. If Bill Ba selectman is attending
tomorrow night, I can get that out to
you in the morning.
>> Yeah. Uh provided that's still the the
best document. Uh great.
All right. So, um right, let's go around
the horn and in terms of public speak um
well, we have our select people. So, uh,
Scott, do you have anything further you
want to add to our meeting?
>> I'm good, thank you.
>> All right. Thank you. Um, Carol, how you
>> I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Okay, Joanne, I know you've been very
patient.
>> That's okay. I mean, a lot of times I
know you guys have had long meetings and
I don't say things, but because of the
discussion tonight, I'm definitely going
to weigh in on a couple things. Um, so I
know one thing, we have a very small
town, you know, 3,000 people. Um, when
you start talking about the stipens and
things of that nature and, you know,
bringing on new positions, it's always
important to understand that every new
position that comes in could have those
benefits that you talk about. The the
employees of our town do receive good
benefits. I agree with that and and good
for them. We want that. We want people
to like their jobs. So, I think it's
important when you're having a con
conversation about hiring an admin
assistant that can help a new town
administrator and then also trying to
keep another person happy. I don't want
the leaders of our town to really, you
know, have to focus on that. If you
think you need a new admin assistant,
that should be the the the drive of the
town so that the town administrator can
be freed up to do other things. And then
if you like that person in the position,
then maybe see if she wants to bring on
additional hours. Um, so many times
through the meetings that I've sat
through, it's all about making someone
happy and where, you know, sometimes you
just have to make a tough call if
there's a position available there. A
stipen actually is jobreated, not person
related. You know, as a person that pays
the people stipens in the company and
town that I work for, that's what
happens. These things get turned over
every year, every year. It's not hurting
someone's feelings. It's just, do we
have a job that has to be done? The
reason that Eric was good and had
created, you know, a couple stipens in
the past, he was trying to save the town
money by saying, "Hey, we have a person
that will do this extra duty and we'll
pay them." When we hire a senior center
director, community center director,
every other town in our area has their
municipal agent be that person. I'm
still trying to understand why we're
paying people additional duty,
additional money. So across the board in
Andover when we have people I understand
having a stipen in the past, we didn't
have one. Again, I had to say that cuz
this was your topic tonight. So, you
know, that kind of thing, you know,
speaking to the Marborl
um senior center director in my research
who has a town of 6,000
who she's one full-time person. I I
don't mind whatever our leaders decide
to do with the, you know, staffing and
all of this, but every person you bring
on, if you're not going to bring on a
full-time person, that's fine because
then you don't worry about benefits. But
again, these stipens have been awarded
across the board and then we give the
stipen a raise every year. So, I mean, I
just am glad that you're all going to
take a hard look at if the staffing
needs to be done, do the staffing, but
it's not about making people happy. It's
about just filling positions. So, thank
you for letting me voice that.
>> Thanks, Jan. Um,
so actually that brings us I believe
that brings us to Tess who is our last
person unless I've missed somebody.
>> Um, I was going to talk about um,
exactly what Joanne was speaking of. Um
but I would have to respectfully
disagree wholeheartedly in regards to um
each town around us that does have
senior center director and um the
municipal agent in one. Um I I would
just ask the board of finance to do
research and and see exactly
uh how accurate that is. um it hasn't
been um
my experience to have that across the
board. I think um I think that as I'm
sure you will do do the research and and
just see how accurate that is. That's
all.
>> Okay.
All right. Is there anyone I have
missed? Don't want to leave anyone out.
Okay. Hearing none. Do we have a motion
to adjurnn?
>> I'll make the motion to adjurnn.
>> I'll second it.
>> Bill motions. Kim seconds. Very good.
All in favor?
>> I.
>> I. That's unanimous.
So, you know,
when our clerk gets to it, it's all of
us. I'm not counting.
>> All right. Thanks everybody. Look, I'll
see you guys tomorrow at 6. Uh, thanks
everyone for your work tonight.
>> Oh, tomorrow 6. Oh, that's right.
>> Yeah, we moved it up. We moved it up.
We're gonna have um
>> Liz, you set it up. We We have a a
special meeting
>> for the first hour.
>> 6 to 7,
>> right? And then we're gonna
>> come back in. Yeah, Liz, help me with
this. Thank you so much. We're going to
come back in and do our regular meeting,
right? Starting at 7.
>> Thank you. Okay. Glad you reminded me.
>> Yeah. Important. All right, guys.
And I thank